
        *****
1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
1.E.9.
1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:
1.F.
1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
"A-a-a-business, business!" he urged, with a moisture that was not of
"A--a matter of business. You confuse me, and how can I transact
"A bad business this, madame, of Gaspard's execution. Ah! the poor
"A bad look, you say, my dear Darnay? Yes, but we don't know what reason
a bad thing for me in a worldly point of view; in a selfish aspect, I am
"A bad truth for you," said Defarge, speaking with knitted brows, and
a Bank," said Stryver; "and having summed up three leading reasons for
a Bastille prisoner. There is no patriot in Paris--in Paris? In
A beautiful landscape, with the corn bright in it, but not abundant.
a black dress rang at my gate, demanded to see me, and softly followed
able to do so much; unenlightened and undirected, I can do so little.
able to make another admission, "nobody can doubt that."
able to raise my thoughts to Him who was put to death, that we might
abolishing the lawful ringer, rang for joy.
A bottle of good claret after dinner does a digger in the red coals no
"About."
about at all? What can I do for my friend? No man ever can have been
"About. Good!"
about her; years had not tamed the wildness, or softened the grimness,
about him, which was new to the observation of Charles Darnay.
"about leaving of you, you see. We don't know what may happen."
about the lists? No. Had not procured them himself, for instance? No.
about. The red cap and tri-colour cockade were universal, both among men
about there, or a distant clink was heard across the courtyard, or a
"About the usual time; it may be a quarter of an hour later."
Above all, one hideous figure grew as familiar as if it had been before
a brisk trot, the postilions had quickened the pace, she was left far
a broken sword, lying among the hay. That weapon was a gentleman's. In
"'A brother.'
absence. He had come back, to save a citizen's life, and to bear his
absence. So much of what had happened in that dreadful time as could be
absorption, stretched his neck to hear who they were. The crowd about
a building at the back, attainable by a courtyard where a plane-tree
Abyssinia or Ashantee.
a calendar on this stone. What is that in your hand? A crowbar? Give it
a cannon, and on the instant he became a cannonier--Defarge of the
a captive who had once done the Fairy a service. All was subdued and
A carriage with post-horses was ready at the Bank door, and Jerry was
a case of medicines here;' and brought it from a closet, and put it on
accent. "Yes, madame, yes. I am English!"
acceptation by the Tribunal was in use--to live by his own industry in
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
accident had happened in getting it out of a cart; the cask had tumbled
accomplished the interment of the deceased Roger Cly in its own way, and
accomplishing many similar objects akin in their nature to the abolition
Accordingly, Mr. Stryver inaugurated the Long Vacation with a formal
Accordingly, the forger was put to Death; the utterer of a bad note
Accordingly, when Mr. Lorry called that night as late as ten o'clock,
according to Doctor Manette's reiterated instructions. The same cautious
according to the set of the wind, and was soon at the fountain,
account. I know this must always be a sore subject with the family; let
account of it, the Jury declared that they had heard enough, and that
account--was in a state of the greatest wonder.
accursed fortress of the eight strong towers, some discovered letters
A certain portion of his time was passed at Cambridge, where he
a change in it.
a character, and with the supple freedom of a woman who had habitually
achievements as sentencing a youth to have his hands cut off, his tongue
achieve, were, in truth, not a sound business; considered with any
a child."
A citizeness of France?
acknowledgment of this communication and a shilling. Mr. Carton came up
a cloud of great blue-flies were swarming about the prisoner, in
"A compliment," said the Marquis, "to the grandeur of the family,
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
a corner. Other company were there: two playing cards, two playing
a corner, that they might enjoy the fire-light undisturbed. Little Lucie
a corner. The house was damp and decayed, indifferently
a counting-house below, was ever heard or seen. Occasionally, a stray
acquaintance he had first made at the Royal George Hotel at Dover, and
acquit myself of. In your reception of it, don't heed me any more than
"A craven who abandoned his post," said another--this Monseigneur had
"'A crazed young common dog! A serf! Forced my brother to draw upon him,
across, a few feet within. There was a heap of old feathery wood-ashes
across the mill, across the prison--seemed to strike across the earth,
action, but the hand made no response--dropped cold and heavy, and took
action--not in words. I want no more words."
action, with a small clear space about him as the people drew one
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
a damp soft footpath in a garden where a neglected fountain had
a dark eye. His condition was that of a young gentleman. He was plainly
"A daughter. A-a-matter of business--don't be distressed. Miss, if the
added, as he tenderly kissed her: "my future is far brighter, Lucie,
added to himself, before he rang his little bell again, and summoned his
additionally disconcerting yet, to have madame in the crowd in the
additional slowness, and additional tendency to hold forth and hold
addressed here, on the chance of our knowing where to forward it, and
addressed him by his name.
addressed to her by the same post.
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
"A despatch sent after you from over yonder. T. and Co."
a different way; the lion for the most part reclining with his hands in
a disreputable look, but so diminished the strong resemblance he
a distance: the more readily, because certain men who had by some
A disturbed and doleful mind he brought to bear upon them, and slowly
admiration, bind themselves willing slaves, to youth when they have lost
a dream, that ends in nothing, and leaves the sleeper where he lay down,
advance, and always going on the side which Mr. Lorry took, as though he
advance, and greatly facilitate its progress during the precious hours
advanced on your way to another. You speak faintly."
advanced, retreated, struck at one another's hands, clutched at one
advance, he at first supposed that his daughter's marriage had taken
advancing echoes, there was the tread of her tiny feet and the sound of
advice."
A faint murmur arose about the house from the few people who were left
a fair face, on the throne of France. In both countries it was clearer
"A fancy, then, my wise pet," said Mr. Lorry, patting her hand. "They
afar off, and scarcely audible yet, that stirred her heart too much.
A favourite at the Old Bailey, and eke at the Sessions, Mr. Stryver had
a few words for the memory of the compassionate wife of the Marquis; but
affairs, allied himself perforce with a Farmer-General. As to finances
affairs in France, he being of French extraction, did require his making
Affected, and impressed with terror as they both were, by this spectacle
affection."
affectionate brother, said through her tears, "Mr. Cruncher."
affection could reverse them, for he could have had no pride but in
afflicted to find that his friend has drawn a prize in the lottery of
afford it. I'm not a going to be made unlucky by _your_ sneaking. If
A figure entering at the door threw a shadow on Madame Defarge which she
afire to-day, or sacked to-morrow! Now, a judicious selection from these
a floppin' again the business to that degree as is ruinating--stark
a foolish fancy makes me shudder to-night, when all is so black and
A footstep in the snow. Madame Defarge. "I salute you, citizeness,"
a forehead with a singular capacity (remembering how young and smooth
a forest of legs; he was hauled to the nearest street corner where one
"Afraid?"
Afraid, in her extreme perturbation, of the loneliness of the deserted
afraid of you than of these others."
afraid to take him out of the air, and I had made a bed for him on the
a fraud. You know the accused to be the husband of my daughter. My
a French citizen, who represented that his life was endangered by his
a frequent presence. As it advanced, the mender of roads would discern
After a few dull efforts to get to sleep again, which the man
After a gloomy silence, the first Jacques said, "Good! You have acted
After a long silence, the head was lifted for another moment, and the
after a pause:
After a pause, he added, again settling the crisp flaxen wig at the
after a short silence on both sides, "to what would you refer this
after a while, and as it was necessary to watch its influence, I then
after. Eager and prominent among them, one man with a craving face, and
After grasping the Doctor's hand, as he stood victorious and proud
After hailing the morn with this second salutation, he threw a boot at
"After having long been in danger of my life at the hands of the
after he had emerged into the outer presence of Saint Antoine, the
after him. He has not relinquished her patient hand in getting out, but
after kissing little Lucie, who was lifted up to clasp her arms round
After looking at her, as if the sound of even a single French word were
after Miss Pross, like somebody at church.
after Mr. Lorry could not have seen, for his life, to read or write.
afternoon."
afternoon she arrived at the usual corner. It was a day of some wild
afternoon, still with her knitting in her hands as the crowd waited to
"After not setting eyes upon you or hearing of you for so long a time,
After peeping into several wine-shops, she stopped at the sign of the
After some cogitation, accompanied with an intent look at his patron,
After some delay and demur, the door grudgingly turned on its hinges a
After such imaginary discourse, the passenger in his fancy would dig,
"After that there gallop from Temple Bar, old lady, I won't trust your
After this odd description of his daily routine of employment, Mr. Lorry
after. Thus, Tellson's, in its day, like greater places of business,
afterwards.
afterwards, and a throng of people came pouring round the corner by the
afterwards, he was, to all outward appearance, as unsubstantial as ever.
afterwards resident in Paris, write this melancholy paper in my doleful
after you had left us, when I was talking to Lucie--"
a gag--tied so, with a tight string, making him look almost as if he
again."
again, as if it were the face of the cruel Marquis, burning at the stake
again charged with mist and vapour, Mr. Lorry's thoughts seemed to cloud
Again Darnay answered not a word.
again. If I were dead, that could not be surer than it is henceforth. In
again in gossip. Gradually, these strings of ragged people shortened and
again in the morning. Good repose! Light Monsieur my nephew to his
Again Mr. Cruncher nodded his head.
"Again; on the other hand, they whisper at the fountain," resumed the
again, paused, struck out the time afresh, formed into lines the width
again produce her knitted registers, and denounce people whose lives the
again, shook himself, yawned, shivered, and complied.
"Against."
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
against, according to your commands. It is in vain I represent that,
against him, and from this person he learned that the funeral was the
against him. If they move him at all, it is only to a quiet smile, as he
against the door-post, knitting, and saw nothing.
against the tyrants of the earth, rose from all the varying soils
against the wall where its shadow was darkest, had silently strolled
against the world in arms; the black flag waved night and day from the
"Against what side?"
Again the mender of roads went through the whole performance; in which
again, they were fainter, they were gone; but they had been there. And
again to come out at the low-arched door, they left it burning, and
again, until the silence was again broken.
again upon Lucie. "Judge you! Is it likely that the trouble of one wife
"Again, well?"
"Again, well? Can I feed them?"
again when it was shut, and touched it. He had heard of her going to
again with an undutiful grin.
"Age, about forty years; height, about five feet nine; black hair;
aged and bent, but otherwise restored, and faithful to all men in his
age. Enough of me."
agency they crookedly quivered and jerked, scores at a time, over the
a gentle action, but not at all gently done; a very remarkable
ages had been killed by the populace; that four days and nights had been
agin, are you?"
agitated and surprised, to take his favourite in his arms? To whom did
ago. He turned his head as they entered, and showed the surprise with
ago, in the quiet corner in Soho, that this precious brother had spent
a golden apple on the top of it, was now among the company in the outer
"A good patriot," said the other, "could hardly have been more afflicted
a good patriot will be happy to make them. The Republic goes before all.
ago. You English are cold, it seems to me."
a grand clearance among Mr. Stryver's papers before the setting in
a great and powerful Fairy who had opened a prison-wall and let out
a great nobleman who had lived in it until he made a flight from the
A great uproar took place in the court, and in the midst of it, Doctor
agreeable characteristics. Simple as the furniture was, it was set off
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
"Ah!"
"Aha, a perfect Frenchman! Good night, Englishman."
"Ah! A child too! Your mother, is it not, my little citizeness?"
a half." With such scraps tossing and rolling upward from the depths of
"Ah! But it's not my business. My work is my business. See my saw! I
"Ah! indeed!" said Miss Pross. "I am very much put out about my
"Ah! It is not probable he will arrive to-night; nevertheless, leave the
"Ah! most gracious Monsieur heretofore the Marquis, where is that
a holy determination to examine his master's table-drawers and pockets,
"Ah!" returned Miss Pross, shaking her head. "But I don't say he don't
"Ah!" returned the man, with a relish; "he'll be drawn on a hurdle to
"Ah!" returned the other, sighing: "yes! The same Sydney, with the same
"Ah!" said Carton, with a careless wave of his hand, as if he waved that
"Ah! So much the worse! A bitter taste it is that such poor cattle
"Ah, the unfortunate, miserable people! So oppressed, too--as you say."
a human creature in Saint Antoine's bosom but a few old crones and the
"Ah, what a pity! We so much regret it! But take courage; several
aids to the power and honour of families, these slight favours that
ain't a going to be blest out of house and home. I won't have my wittles
air."
air in ripples that visibly followed and overspread one another, as the
air like spray.
air of a gentleman who had accidentally broke some common thing, and had
alacrity, and kissing her cheek. "You will not be late?"
A large cask of wine had been dropped and broken, in the street. The
"Alas, no, Monseigneur! But he lies yonder, under a little heap of poor
ale-houses by the way to drink, but evincing a tendency to keep his
Alexandre Manette.
"Alexandre Manette, physician."
"Alexandre Manette. Physician. French. Which is he?"
"Alexandre Manette," said Defarge in his ear, following the letters
"A likely thing, too!" replied the strong woman. "If it was ever
alike, that I then first perceived them to be twin brothers.
a lingering interest in the ways of life and men. Some, seated with
a little bent, and his hands clasped at his back, like a docile and
a little coldly as to them, though very warmly as to the Doctor. "Miss
a little supper most nights, with fascinating company. So polite and so
a little town on the high road, still a long way from Paris.
alive! Foulon who told the starving people they might eat grass! Foulon
all along to be out of the line, if he, could see his way out, being
all assisted by his fellow-passengers, who had expeditiously secreted
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
all day, and I am not as young as I was! My tea, my dear! Thank ye. Now,
all directions. As if the Gorgon's head had surveyed it, when it was
all done in open day, in the open streets of this city of Paris; and
all events she'll see that." And she did.
all gone together. Royalty was gone; had been besieged in its Palace and
all her earthly wrongs and sorrows ended.
all his rust off long ago, but nothing would file his spiky head down.
all I can to make what poor amends I can. He will never prosper in his
all its foreign and home connection, ever paid in thrice the time. Then
all kinds and varieties of men came out of it. Consequently, another
all, Mr. Lorry, smilingly observant of that fanciful resemblance which
all my heart, was capable of better things, Mr. Carton!"
all others; the first, that this must be kept secret from Lucie;
Allowing for my learned friend's appearance being careless and slovenly
all portions of a gentleman's dress. On one of them, which was a fringed
"All sorts of people have been proposed to me, but I will have nothing
"All sorts of people who are not in the least degree worthy of the pet,
all stopped at once, began again, struck, clutched, and tore, and then
all such cases, the time was long, while it flamed by so fast. A
all suspected everybody else, and the coachman was sure of nothing but
All the air round was so thick and dark, the people were so passionately
all the days of my life, I never saw him."
all the engaging graces and courtesies of life.
all the fingers convulsively clutching at every weapon or semblance of a
all the good you bring to him, all the relief, all the happiness you
All the people of the village were at the fountain, standing about
All the people within reach had suspended their business, or their
All these things, and a thousand like them, came to pass in and close
All these trivial incidents belonged to the routine of life, and the
all the spilt wine swallowed?"
all the taxing authorities, were armed more or less, and were crowded
All the time, our overfraught hearts are beating at a rate that would
"All the village," pursued the mender of roads, on tiptoe and in a low
all the world over), when Mr. Cruncher, touching him on the shoulder,
All things, however, were in their places; all was quiet; and he lay
all things to lay especial stress on the discharge of that maternal
All this was in a second. As the smoke cleared, leaving an awful
All this was seen in a moment, as the vision of a drowning man, or of
all three reminded of the old Sunday night when they had looked at the
All through the cold and restless interval, until dawn, they once more
all totally unfit for their several callings, all lying horribly in
all true echoes for ages and ages.
all untrimmed, hanging loose about him. His indifference to fire was
alluvial mud, under the bright sky of the South and under the clouds of
"All well, Jacques."
"All work is stopped, all assemble there, nobody leads the cows out,
all, work! Work, Jacques One, Jacques Two, Jacques One Thousand, Jacques
ally. What the two drank together, between Hilary Term and Michaelmas,
"Almost eighteen years."
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
alone, and looked in that direction too; glanced down from behind his
alone, and will be shared by no one?"
alone--blinded with smoke.
alone could have slowly formed in any one, the ability to do any work
"Alone! God help him, who should be with him!" said the other, in the
alone there in the calm morning air, with a red upon it that the sun had
a long crooked furrow among the populace in the streets. Ridges of faces
along sunny and crowded Fleet-street, was a very different Young Jerry
Along the Paris streets, the death-carts rumble, hollow and harsh. Six
along the pavement, to the jostlement of all weaker people, might have
"A long time, I suppose," said Defarge.
a long way off.
along which the sixties rolled to a death which had become so common and
a long while, and I have made shoes ever since."
along with it, that there might have been a scavenger in the street,
aloud under the fast-sailing clouds, nor was it more expressive of
already begrimed with gunpowder and sweat, issued orders, issued arms,
already earned the complimentary name of The Vengeance.
already explained to her that his concealment from herself of the name
already made Charles Darnay restless, and which still kept him so.
already marked by the Woodman, Fate, to come down and be sawn into
already scrubbed throughout; and between the cups and saucers arranged
Also, I see that they are covered with dust, and that the dust moves
also of clerks not at all old, who danced in public on the slightest
also, with tricoloured ribbons; also, with the standard inscription
Although the Doctor's daughter had known nothing of the country of her
altogether in an absent and preoccupied state.
always acquitted herself marvellously. Her dinners, of a very modest
always actively employed, the swift changes and troubles of the time
always followed by a press of people towards the third cart. The
always have in their mouths, and hard lives they live, Jacques. Am I
always pricked up his senses, and became excited, when a funeral passed
always remember them. I hope it may be taken into account one day,
"Al-ways rusty! His fingers is al-ways rusty!" muttered young Jerry.
always seen by the public in the act of bowing, and were popularly
always shut up within him. Indeed, it is this doubt and the uneasiness
always spoke of the year of our Lord as Anna Dominoes: apparently under
always with him, there was another current of impression that never
a man could be, to find himself awakened at the small inn to which he
am an official."
a man's voice called from the mist, "Is that the Dover mail?"
a man who had been drowned and filled with water. When the gaoler was
a man who would give his life, to keep a life you love beside you!"
A man with a bloated face opened the strong wicket, to whom Defarge
a matter of course. For such variety of reasons, Tellson's was at that
amazement.
"A. M.!" croaked Jacques Three, as he read greedily.
am determined to be peevish after my long day's botheration. Where is
a means of angering the blood, bewildering the senses, and steeling the
"Am I not?" Mr. Lorry opened his hands, and extended them outwards with
"Am I not prosperous?" asked Stryver.
amiss, or whether he desired to show a little attention to an eminent
amiss. This was done without any demonstrative accompaniment, not long
"Am I to wait in the court, sir?" he asked, as the result of that
am not unwilling to die, if the Republic which is to do so much good
A moment, and it was gone. Climbing to a high chamber in a well of
"A moment! Let me speak of it in its place. First," he put his hand in
"A moment more."
A moment of profound silence followed. Defarge and his wife looked
among a rank garden-full of flaring companions.
among every little knot of women that she had spoken with, and left
among its refuse, of anything to eat. Hunger was the inscription on the
among ourselves, that I do hope there will be no oniony and tobaccoey
among some of them for sending it to England."
among such as were interested in the matter, that although Sydney Carton
among the assembled devotees of Monseigneur--forming a goodly half
among the fishermen of the sea-shore, and that peasant family so injured
among the most striking and necessary of the advocate's accomplishments.
among the personages who attended at the hotel of Monseigneur that day.
Among these terrors, and the brood belonging to them, the Doctor walked
Among the talkers, was Stryver, of the King's Bench Bar, far on his
among those fragments with care, Jacques. And see! Here is my knife,"
"Among us!" from the universal throat again. "And dead?"
"A most earnest, pressing, and emphatic entreaty, addressed to you
a mother have arisen; and it was then that I lost the little hope I had
am sorry for it on your account, and sorry for it on the poor father's
"A multitude of people, and yet a solitude!" said Darnay, when they had
A murky red and yellow sky, and a rising mist from the Seine, denoted
amused and laughing, listened in the echoing corner, until her little
am very ignorant, and it troubles me--just a little."
an answering chorus of "Good day!"
an argumentative smile.
an aristocrat who has gone to the Guillotine.
an ashy and solemn visage, "them poor things well out o' this, never no
anathematised by Saint Antoine, and was wrought into the fatal register.
ancient chum is a man of a pretty strong will. Yes, Sydney, I have had
and, above all, such dread and terror, that Mr. Lorry felt it incumbent
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
and a certain indescribable intensity of face: not of an active kind,
and a cruel knife.
"And advancing?"
and a few yards of road; and the reek of the labouring horses steamed
and again up steep rugged ascents of stone and brick, more like dry
and a light answer does not help me to forget it."
"And all I can say of it is," laughed Stryver with a vexed laugh, "that
and all the gravestones in the churchyard--it was a large churchyard
And all the worse for the doomed man, that the denouncer was a
and a loose bed-gown, and his throat was bare for his greater ease. He
and a man of some distinction: it is a piece of good fortune for her,
and among the cropped grass and the stubble of the corn, along the
and anger in Saint Antoine, touching the unhappy fate of poor Gaspard."
and arches, the storm within the fortress and without was only audible
and ardent man at my side."
and, as a young man with your fortune to make, you are probably mindful
and (as far as I could see) face too.
and a shouting coming along, which filled her with fear. A moment
"And as such," quoth Mr. Lorry, whom the counsel learned in the law had
and attentive expression fixed upon him; "we are rather thoughtful
and at the Cross, a kneeling figure or two; attendant on the latter
and at the prison on the crag. When he had identified these objects
and axes were sharp and bright, the smith's hammers were heavy, and the
and beans, patches of most coarse vegetable substitutes for wheat. On
and beaten out of their original impress as the small coinage of
and before the timid arm was loosed from his neck asked her for a kiss.
"And before the tumbrils arrive. Be sure you are there, my soul," said
and brought them up, and charming grandmammas of sixty dressed and
and by many associations of the days when what we call the World was not
and called La Guillotine, why did you come to France?"
and came to the side of the mail, where the passenger stood. The rider
and came to your senses in a miserable little shop, with two little
and cap, as a good citizen must, and in a window he had stationed his
and carried to her through the streets to slake her devouring thirst.
and casting up to sight from the stormy deep such wrecks of faces, that
and characteristic, besides being singular--and she raised her hand,
and children--resounded in the street while this wine game lasted. There
and child, would you? Not you!" and throwing off other sarcastic sparks
and contending with the fire.
and counting; and the roar of the city changed to this extent--that it
and courage, for his sake. That was well done;" they had left the spot;
and cried:
and danced his angry blood up, that it boiled again, on hearing when
and dangerous; and in the years so long after the breaking of the cask
and dark: for, the window of dormer shape, was in truth a door in the
and degrees unclosed a little here, it clenched the tighter there; and
and deliberately left the shop. "There is nothing more to do," said he,
and delicately pointing, first to his nephew, then to himself.
and deliver on Turnham Green, by one highwayman, who despoiled the
and desk, and work-table, and box of water-colours; the second was
and desperate compression of the lips in sleep, inspired the mender
and differing, have come together on the dark highway, to repair home
and dig, dig--now with a spade, now with a great key, now with his
and dirty straw, its disagreeable smell, and its obscurity, was rather
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
and dislike, than was comportable with its wearer's assumption of
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
and down, walking up and down, until he is composed. But he never says
"And do you really go to-night?"
"And do you take no one with you?"
and drank. In the breast of his blouse he carried some coarse dark
and dress yourself, emigrant."
and driving him into his corner, whenever the coach got a special
and dust came dropping down, which he averted his face to avoid; and
and eagerness; there was no visible menacing or anger. Neither did the
and elegantly spurning figures and handsomely disdainful faces of both
and ends of houses peeped at them as they talked, and the plane-tree
and ever worse than useless, was in constant requisition; now, stringing
and faces are often turned up to some of them, and they are asked some
and falling of the blaze, the stone faces showed as if they were in
and fears, and therefore Mr. Attorney-General had made the most of it;
and figures. But the face was in the main one face, and every head was
and finish. Hurry, hurry!"
and for a little while it seemed as if Creation were delivered over to
and for giving me your advice; you know the young lady better than I do;
and for the senseless stones that made their pavements. Many a night
and for to-morrow's victims then awaiting their doom in the prisons,
and for which I shall be summoned before the tribunal, and shall lose my
and found Lucie weeping, alone. She was thrown into a transport by the
and from corner to corner, swallowing talk in lieu of drink, with greedy
and from the guard to the coachman, and listened. The coachman looked
and gaiters into the general weight of the establishment.
and get a light with tolerable safety and ease (if he were lucky) in
and had always been the same moody and morose lounger there. When he
and has fallen by my brother's sword--like a gentleman.'
"And has left me," answered the nephew, "bound to a system that is
and, having revived himself by twice pacing the pavements of King's
and heaps of flies, who were extending their inquisitive and adventurous
and heavily the day lagged on with him.
and he kept his place with her as she grew. The little boy had spoken of
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
And her agitated hand waved to them from a chaise window, and she was
and her eyes looked at the stranger. "Stay long enough, and I shall knit
and her father. Dwell upon that, for she would lay her own fair head
and her father, who were following, and said to the latter:
and he said to the drawer, as he moved his chair to it:
and he should have been of a hot temperament, for, although it was a
and Hilary.
and himself to Versailles. It was additionally disconcerting to have
and his books were in frequent requisition as to property confiscated
and his daughter and her child, at any time, to pass the barrier and the
and his friend, with his personal affliction, deprivation, and weakness.
and his qualms were gone with the night--in which particulars it is not
and his snuff-box in his hand, slowly passed among the mirrors on his
and his tears fell.
"And his wife and child. Hush! Yes."
and hoisted them again, a feeble grove of dim wicks swung in a sickly
and hopping on at his side--perhaps taking his arm--it was a pursuer to
and horses to be seen to, but travelling papers; and as time pressed,
and how can you rightly have one without t'other? Then, wot with
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and humanity. With this uneasiness half stifled, and half reproaching
and hunted, and were made so poor, that our father told us it was a
"And I am, in plain reality. The truth is, my dear Charles," Mr. Lorry
And I am really very much obliged to you for allowing me to sound you,
and I am sure it will be better than our going from here. I feel certain
"And I am very happy to-night, dear father. I am deeply happy in the
"--And if it does come, while we live to see it triumph--I hope, for her
"And I have no doubt," said Mr. Lorry, "that I was right in the
"And I hear them!" he added again, after a peal of thunder. "Here they
"And I hope to do mine. Now, good bye!"
and I know better. I distress you; I draw fast to an end. Will you let
and importunity. They are sought by so many, and they are granted
and in a faltering voice, "that I heard strange feet upon the stairs."
and in a very weak state of health. My father was so reduced that I was
"And indeed, now I think again, I have a strong impression that I
And indeed she never did.
"And indeed, sir," pursued Mr. Lorry, not minding him, "I really don't
and in separate rings of two and four they turned and turned until they
and in the ghastliness of their worn and wasted state. Pride, contempt,
and I see them--by the Lightning." He added the last words, after there
and I walked on, that night and half next day, until I met (as I was
and Jacques Three, were in the first press, and at no great distance
and Jerry, who were at liberty to leave the city, should leave it at
and keep her down, and looked into her face. Her eyes were dilated and
and keeping an eye and a hand on the arm-chest before him, where a
and keep these feet far out of her life! For, they are headlong, mad,
and knees.
and Latin through the Custom-house. The rest of his time he passed in
and lay cunningly on its back to trip him up. All this time it was
and liberty. That, in the first frantic greetings lavished on himself as
and like one thinking aloud.
and looked about him in the old way. Finally, with a deep long sigh, he
And looking along them, with reverently shaded eyes, a bridge of light
and looking at his watch, "without any scruple, in a very few minutes."
and lovers, with such a world around them and before them, loved and
and Lucie were reversed, yet only as the liveliest gratitude and
and made national. What he could save for the owners, he saved. No
and memoranda, are all comprehended in the one line, 'Recalled to Life;'
and might have the power to persuade to some restraint. Only last night,
and mind no other object."
"And mind you!" said Mr. Cruncher. "No games to-morrow! If I, as a
and Mischief."
and Miss Pross, were left quite alone. It was when they turned into
and Monsieur Gabelle came down bringing his life with him for that
and more drafts were honoured in five minutes than even Tellson's, with
and more real child. Of her outward appearance I know no more than
and mother would be much to us now?"
and multitudes of people turning up after him (I could have forgiven
and mutter a tremendous curse. No direct answer could have been half so
and my partners suffer. You was to honour and obey; why the devil don't
and my sorrows are dust.
and natural. At last, after several hours, when sundry summer-houses had
and nearer.
and nightcaps, and all visible things with a brooding look upon them
and not know that a mother's first duty is to blow her boy out?"
and not open that great mouth of yours. Bah! Put him aside, Monsieur
and not spoken of.'
"And now speak to your father, dearest. No other man in all this France
And now that the cloud settled on Saint Antoine, which a momentary
And now, the jury turned to consider, and the great flies swarmed again.
"And now we have done, Sydney, fill a bumper of punch," said Mr.
"and now we shall have hundreds of people pretty soon!"
and of contracted dimensions, to be ascended, before the garret story
"And of me, I am sure," said Mr. Lorry. "Are you going out?"
and of my mother who is dead, you learn that I have to kneel to my
and of our native France so wicked to you, weep for it, weep for it! And
and of the state of the prisoner when released and delivered to him.
"And, O my dearest Love!" she urged, clinging nearer to him, laying her
"And once again listen, Jacques!" said the kneeling Number Three:
and opened it. A rude clattering of feet over the floor, and four rough
and oppressive. If he needed a King and Queen to restore him, he was
and other memorials of prisoners of old time, long dead of broken
and other wrappings, that they gave him to wear. He readily responded to
and out upon the mire-deep roads. In this state they traversed without
and over the bridge, the Carmagnole absorbed them every one and whirled
and performing many other potent spells for compelling the Evil One, no
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
and pointed as if he saw the gallows somewhere in the sky.
and poison, the way lay. Yielding to his own disturbance of mind, and to
and raised her eyebrows by the breadth of another line.
and read. Citizen Gabelle was called to confirm it, and did so. Citizen
and recounted faithfully. Will you wait for us a little, outside the
and recovering after the cloud had burst and passed, I should hope that
and rested on her when it was finished. Miss Pross had nothing beautiful
and restored the usual hand to his mouth.
and retired himself. The trial had lasted all day, and the lamps in
and said to him:
and secrecy appear to honest minds, that Mr. Lorry and Miss Pross,
and secrete his papers. That, he (Mr. Attorney-General) was prepared to
and self-possessed, and those of her dear husband's, need not be told.
and set silence. The deeper he sank into this silence, the fainter hope
and seventy-five conduct their Greatnesses, and myriads of small
"And she showed me her children," said the Doctor of Beauvais, "and
and short, but try."
and silently disappeared; if he had been spirited away; if it had not
and silk and ribbon, with the stain dyeing those trifles through
and slavery, my friend," observed the Marquis, "will keep the dogs
"And sleeping soundly."
and slight, and she believed them over.
and slowly drawing a hand across his florid face: "do you know, I rather
and slowly paced up and down his platform, not unattended by a suspicion
and slowly through the streets. Therefore, he resolved to keep Two
and sneezed into the sack. It was the sign of the regeneration of the
"And so do I. I heard the fall of the axe in that sound."
"And so," said Mr. Lorry, who could not sufficiently admire the bride,
and speak on."
and spoke to him on topics that had been of late familiar to them. He
and steady, he sometimes repeated them to himself as he walked; but, he
and stifled by the bunches of grass and straw that were thrust into his
and still holding her straw travelling-hat by its ribbon in her hand. As
And still Madame Defarge, pursuing her way along the streets, came
and still of to-morrow's and to-morrow's, the chain of association that
and stood with his hands resting on the slab of wood before him, so
and stormed out, which did occasionally happen, he had only to shut
and strongly to the home you so adorn--the dearest ties that will ever
and struck him blows. You hear?"
and suffering."
and surge in bed, until he rose above the surface, with his spiky hair
and tame in its extreme submission. Monsieur the Marquis ran his eyes
and teach me how to be a little more useful."
and tell me there is nothing angry or estranged between us, and I will
and that crash was the last thing I should ever hear in this life."
and that he had been as ignorant as she of his father's and uncle's
"And that is--?"
and that post-horses would roast.
and that stillness seems to be fixed and unchangeable, never to be
and that there was something left in me at this time which you could
and the clearness of his answers, made a great impression; but, as he
and the coffee-room, when a gentleman of sixty, formally dressed in a
and the craving air. "The name of that prisoner was Damiens, and it was
and the curtain, hastened to Lucie, and told her that her father was
and the dismal place was deserted until to-morrow morning's interest of
and the eyes of the stone faces of the chateau were opened.
and the fair-faced Queen came in their golden coach, attended by the
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.
and the frightful moral disorder, born of unspeakable suffering,
and the Grand Opera were charmingly represented. Monseigneur was out at
and the harness, and the mud, and the mail, were all so heavy, that the
and their prisoner pass (for it is a solitary road, that, where any
and the letter E.
"And the maker's name?" said Defarge.
"And then breakfast, sir? Yes, sir. That way, sir, if you please.
and then his head will be chopped off, and he'll be cut into quarters.
and the night before that, and a good many nights in succession, making
and then they might escape."
and the old and intent expression was a constant, not an occasional,
And the old answer:
and The Other, all had something disparaging to say, in French or in
and the postmaster shut and barred the crazy double gates. The farrier
and the precious little bells went ringing downstairs. There was soon
and there was not a head in the nation but must have dropped before it.
and there were twenty hands at the horses' bridles.
and the same voice called to me by my name. I answered. The carriage
and the sun rose bright, placid, and beautiful.
and the sun was red on the courtyard. But, the lesser grindstone stood
and the twentieth was difficult to squeeze in."
and the winnowing of many bushels of words, Madame Defarge's frequent
and they come to be less hungry, and in all ways to suffer less, she may
and they, having finally alighted near the Saint's boundaries, were
and think, or try to get their straying thoughts together. Only one, and
and through. Hatchets, knives, bayonets, swords, all brought to be
and throughout Defarge held him by the collar, as if to restrain him
and tobacco, where certain soldiers and patriots, asleep and awake,
and to cry, and then got up and hurried away.
and to earth."
and to-morrow of a wretched pilferer who had robbed a farmer's boy of
and tools were put aside again, and that the Doctor himself sat reading
and top-boots, then in vogue, and the light of the fire touching their
and torn asunder, yielded the sensation. Whatever gloss the various
and tricoloured cockade was the head-dress otherwise prevailing. Looking
and turning in the direction of the sanctuary, "to the Devil!"
and Two sitting on the old pallet-bed, each with his chin resting on
and unfit to cope with such intricate and difficult matters. I do not
and unshaken. I try it with these details, and I see them all, in
and up to the prison; all the village sees the prison gate open in the
and used as a kind of armoury, my love."
and viewed the prospect, he would see some rough figure approaching on
And walked with a settled step, down-stairs.
and washed at the usual hour, and set off with his son to pursue his
and was in the courtyard when Mr. Lorry regained the blind.
and was the general public entrance to a great pile of houses, inhabited
and was worthy to be; how the watchful eyes of those forgers and false
and went his way.
and went out with him from the warm atmosphere of the old Bank, into the
and were quick to see what happened to the golden-haired doll?"
and were trying them all; he examined his finger-nails with a very
"And what do you suppose, you conceited female," said Mr. Cruncher, with
and what portended the swift hoisting-up of Monsieur Gabelle behind
"And what says he? What does he send me?"
and what with that ringing, and with the rustle of silk and brocade and
"And when the relapse fell on him, was he in most respects--or in all
and when they should have violently perished; how many accounts with
and where is the false conspirator who says that I denounce the husband
and where Madame Defarge immediately took her post at her desk, counted
and which were made the dingier by their own iron bars proper, and the
and white silk stockings." At the gallows and the wheel--the axe was a
and who had been moving round her to take in every point of her quiet,
and who my father, and how I never knew their hard, hard history. But I
"And whose fault was that?"
and whose young eyes stood close by one another, as his father's did,
"And why not?"
"And why not, citizen?"
"And why wonder at that?" was the abrupt inquiry that made him start.
and windows were. Then it soared higher, and grew broader and brighter.
and winds were setting straight and strong towards it. He left his
and with such a man as he had to do with. His practised eye saw it, and
and with the windows of Heaven shut, not opened!
and women.
and women there, to see to the poor live stock, and lead the bony cows
and worked at the iron grating across it. In a few minutes, some mortar
and worn out Heaven and earth as well as itself, was hard to be endured
and would know no scruple as to means."
and would suggest the flight. Her first act was to shut them. There were
and wrested from the young lady, whose anguish in giving it they
and wring them with a shriek of anguish.
and writing, knitting, sewing, and embroidering; the men were for the
And yet he did care something for the streets that environed that house,
"And yet keeps that bench and those tools beside him?"
And yet, observing the strange law of contradiction which obtains in
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
"And you have observed, my wife," said Defarge, in a deprecatory manner,
"And you in brown!" she said, indignantly turning to Mr. Lorry;
and young lady so thrown together;--with the exception of that
and young men, Give us the blood of Foulon, Give us the head of Foulon,
and you ought to know. You are a man of business, too."
"And your duties here have drawn to an end, sir?" said Carton, turning
"And you," returned Sydney, busy concocting the punch, "are such a
and your opportunity, to sustain you. Sustain yourself without that.
"And you?" said the uncle. "Forgive my curiosity; do you, under your new
"And you were cut out for a bachelor," pursued Miss Pross, "before you
an emigrant, and where is that emigrant?
an Englishman?"
anew into a butchery so dreadful, that the Doctor had covered his eyes
a newly-lighted wood fire (the blighted and unfruitful year was
angle for the time. A broad ray of light fell into the garret, and
angry apprehension.
angry, dangerous man.
An hour and a half limped heavily away in the thief-and-rascal crowded
"An hour, if you please."
an hour or more ago. You have a face to be remembered, and I remember
(an imaginary engagement took him out, and he had secreted a valise
animals, men, women, children, and the soil that bore them--all worn
animated by an intention, and, in the working out of that intention,
animated gesticulation, and the horses are pulled up, almost on their
animosity.
an indictment denouncing him (with infinite jingle and jangle) for that
annihilated the immature plans of last week, and the events of the week
a notable sufferer under the overthrown system, it had been accorded
another."
another, and themselves, to madness with the wildest cries and actions.
another back that they might see; now, a log of dead wood drawn through
another, been choused this last week into as bad luck as ever a poor
another, before bending forward with a strained attention.
another bite.
Another blank.
another carriage, and soon, in a neighbouring church, where no strange
another course in reserve; which was, to have a certain opinion that he
another generation, suffer less; but it is not for me. There is a curse
another instant, even had his two hands laid on Darnay's lips.
another instant would have brought upon him, the postmaster turned his
another, laboured and strove in the thickest of the uproar.
another man's, I believe."
another name; his own, long forgotten or long concealed. It would be
another place, lay an old sword that seemed to have been a soldier's.
another's heads, spun round alone, caught one another and spun round
answer being obvious. If the impression were not produced by a real
answered:
answered, as to himself, by the surrender of the citizen Evremonde,
answered Carton, with a careless air; "I wish you would keep to that. As
answered curtly, "Sir."
answered for, I summon you and yours, to the last of your bad race, to
answered, in a low voice, "Not at all."
answered to-morrow. Now, I am dumb!"
answer for them. I mark this cross of blood upon you, as a sign that
answer from you. I demand to see her. Either tell her that I demand
answering almost to the minute when I had first seen her. I was alone
answer in great trouble, and very slowly.
answer, that he could only look on, at a distance, with much feebler
answer, that they took fright at his bewilderment, and agreed for
answer the Citizeness Defarge!"
answer. The speaker seemed to acknowledge that it was inconvenient to
answer to the ringing of the bell, and one of my two conductors struck
answer--"various business."
anticipate intentions of Miss Pross, as to admission or denial of the
anticipating, and precipitating the result, without a check. Of the men,
anticipation of what he was soon to become. When toned down again, the
Antoine and Defarge's wine-shop; had received from the watchful police
Antoine escort through the Paris streets in mid-July, one thousand seven
Antoine here."
Antoine. Possibly you have heard of me."
Antoine's blood was up, and the blood of tyranny and domination by the
Antoine's bosom.
Antoine. The whole jury, as a jury of dogs empannelled to try the deer.
Antoine was clamorous to have its wine-shop keeper foremost in the guard
"An urgent case in the Rue St. Honore, he said. It would not detain me,
anxious and intent as she gave this evidence, and, in the pauses when
"Anxious and unhappy, but very beautiful."
anxiously at the jury; while all the spectators moved more or less, and
anybody in their absurd baskets!
anybody's eyes. There's not a fork or a spoon in the collection," said
Anybody who had seen him projecting himself into Soho while he was yet
any claim to being the soul of Romance (for I hope I know better), still
"--any fancies, any reasons, any apprehensions, anything whatsoever,
any good and innocent person to any bad and guilty one; prisons gorged
any good, and never will."
any human creature at any very great pass, could see a world if it
any of the burial-places of this city through which I pass, is there
Any one of these partners would have disinherited his son on the
"Any person mentioned?"
any reason--and no life can possibly be saved, and many lives must
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
Any strongly marked expression of face on the part of a chief actor in
anything but stopping.
anything could. You will not be the cause of my becoming worse."
anything he saw, what either of the other two was like; and each was
anything was to be got; these were to be told off by the score and the
"Any time mentioned?"
anywhere, but Carton was there, with his hands in his pockets, staring
anywhere or in any way, and to remove him--for a while at all
apart.
a people, tumultuous under a red flag and with their country declared in
a person plunges into the river."
a picture of mine, who had no eye for pictures: or of a piece of music
a piscatory flavour that one might have supposed sick fish went up to be
A place of business in London like Tellson's place of business in Paris,
A plot in the prisons, of the foreigner against the Republic. A strong
apocryphal invisible lodger, and they desired nothing more.
"Apparently it must be. Lucie, the wife of Evremonde; is it not?"
Apparently, Mr. Cruncher did, to judge from his looks. He said not a
Apparently not, for he became gloomy again.
"Apparently the Citizen-Doctor is not in his right mind? The
"Apparently the English advocate is in a swoon?"
apparition of a dance-figure gone raving mad arose among them. They
appearance and degree, and the master of the wine-shop had stood outside
appearance and the story of the Bastille Captive removed him from all
appearance, owned to being a Mother. Indeed, except for the mere act of
appearances, you would be amused, Mr. Darnay."
appeared.
appeared by no means to please him, however, with an increasing rabble
appeared to be adjusting some instrument like a great corkscrew.
appeared to be stirred by some perception of inconsistencies surrounding
appeared to span the air between him and the sun, while the river
appeared to take in; for now, when Miss Manette's head dropped upon
appeared with folded arms, and observed in English to The Vengeance,
appearing even to whisper to them in his whispering to all the village.
appellation of Jerry.
application. It had taken a deal of extra wet-towelling to pull him
appreciative, and that it does you the greatest credit, and--in short,
approach us with offers to donate.
approved.
a present of plate as you have made 'em, is enough to bring tears into
"A pretty pattern too!"
a prison of the State, they kept far from its frowning walls, and looked
a promise from me. Tell me what it is."
a punishment of which no one could foresee the extent; also, for
A quainter corner than the corner where the Doctor lived, was not to be
aquiline nose an extra inclination to one side; "there you really give
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
"Are all these footsteps destined to come to all of us, Miss Manette, or
are always received in confidence.' I was guarded in my answer, for I
are always turning up," said Miss Pross. "When you began it--"
are an aristocrat, and must have an escort--and must pay for it."
a reason, to which you are no stranger, for associating you with
are a wise counsellor."
are by those superior Beings--taxed by him without mercy, obliged to
are endued with Reason; and the team had capitulated and returned to
are fused in the one realisation, Guillotine. And yet there is not in
a regular member of the establishment.
are ill cared for!
are looking forward with so much pleasure to seeing him once more
a remote distance of years, harboured in my thoughts, and hidden in my
are no medicines to be obtained in this lonely place.'
are no other means of getting at it. It is the case of a shock from
are not ashamed to mention the name of Lucie! Wishing you were going to
are not much alike in that particular. Indeed, I begin to think we are
are not"--the apprehension came suddenly into his mind--"a prisoner?"
are odds and ends upon the ground. There is no one in that room behind
are played for desperate stakes. Let the Doctor play the winning game; I
are possible, and not only possible, but done--done, see you!--under
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
are so many, they increase so fast, there is so much want. Monseigneur!
are the quickest messenger I know, and will get to Temple Bar long
"Are they both yours to renounce? France may be, but is the property? It
are thrown to this side and to that, and the ploughs go steadily onward.
are very numerous and very loud, though, are they not? Only hear them!"
"Are we not going too slowly? Can they not be induced to go faster?"
are we to divide them among us?"
are you?"
"Are you dying for him?" she whispered.
"Are you going to finish that pair of shoes to-day?" asked Defarge,
"Are you mixing that other bowl of punch?" said Stryver the portly, with
are young."
"Are you quite a stranger to me, sir?"
"Are you sure," asked Jacques Two, of Defarge, "that no embarrassment
aristocrat!"
aristocratic spy of the same antecedents as yourself, who, moreover, has
arm, as an announcement that he had arrived at the peroration of his
arm, "the case is the case of a particularly dear friend of mine. Pray
a root, a sprig, a peppercorn, which will grow to maturity under
around him! "Listen, everywhere!" said madame again. "Listen to him!"
arranged for our leaving Paris at once, so that, from the very door, he
arrangement thus made, you have nothing to fear from me."
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
arrears were handsomely fetched up; everything was got rid of until
"Arrested for all that. When was it done, Mr. Barsad?"
arrival, and perhaps another letter, or perhaps two; but, since then,
arrival. Every one of those had perished in the massacre; every human
arrived at the prison of La Force.
Art, through the portraits of every Drinking Age.
as a blind, and that you have had an unlawful occupation of an infamous
a sacred glow and joy in making his daughter a widow and her child an
a sacred object, and if it had carried me to death I hope it would have
as an emigrant, whose life was forfeit to the Republic, under the decree
as arose from one of the patriots being chronically drunk, and carrying
as a traitor." At this the crowd roared approval.
as at this. Mrs. Southcott had recently attained her five-and-twentieth
As a whirlpool of boiling waters has a centre point, so, all this raging
"As a wife and mother," cried Lucie, most earnestly, "I implore you to
as a young English lady, Miss Manette?"
As before, he repeated, "Out?"
As Carton walked in, took his seat and asked (in very indifferent
ascended forty steps (the prisoner of half an hour already counted
ascended the staircase of the new domicile, were admitted by Jerry,
ascended the stairs, and I found a patient in a high fever of the brain,
ascending the stairs.
a scene of great interest to whom many eyes are directed, will be
ascertained to be a dress day, everybody there would have been eternally
ascertain that, with my knowledge?"
A second man got up and went out. Madame Defarge set wine before the
as elegantly despondent as he could becomingly be of a country still
a servant on horseback, and the conveying away of the said Gabelle
as had been observed by the poets (in many passages which he well
as happily?"
as having a knowledge of him. It thrilled him with a great dread of
As he bent his head in his most courtly manner, there was a secrecy
"As he has said it," returned madame, lifting her eyebrows a little, "it
As he held her to his heart and turned her beautiful head between his
As he held out his hand for the shoe that had been taken from him, Mr.
As he said the word, a blow was struck upon the door.
As he said the words he looked down, with an admiring pity, on the
as he sat on his heap of stones under a bank, taking such shelter as he
As he stood by the wall in a dim corner, while some of the fifty-two
as he stood smoking with his hand on the back of her chair: "what he has
As he took a chair himself, he supplied the link that Mr. Lorry wanted,
As he walked to and fro with his resolution made, he considered that
As he was drawn away, his wife released him, and stood looking after him
A shiver ran through her frame, and from it through his. She said, in a
A shrill sound of laughter and of amused voices--voices of men, women,
"As I am at home myself," said Mr. Lorry, "I'll go upstairs."
as I am getting on!"
aside, and fell down over her neck. Advancing his hand by little and
As if a train of powder laid from the outermost bound of Saint Antoine
as if he were a fellow-creature.
As if his memory were impaired, or his faculties disordered, the
as if the fire-grate had been the furnace in which sustained endeavour
as if there were only one of us, yet never seeming to be hurried, or to
as if with an involuntary action she caught at, or stayed some passing
as in business-like Old England; but now, everything is stopped."
A singular circumstance then arose in the case. The object in hand being
as it opened, a man said in a low voice, in English: "He has never seen
as it seemed, under the windows; some, as it seemed, in the room; some
as it usually did, but came out of doors again, and remained there. A
"As I was prepared to hear, sir."
"As I was saying; if Monsieur Manette had not died; if he had suddenly
asked for it. When I have yielded myself to it, I have been alone, and
asked me where she was, and I told her; who I was, and I told her. It
ask it?"
asks Lucie, clinging to the old man.
ask Stryver, and he'll tell you so."
ask the Enemy no question, but immediately fled; so, Monseigneur, after
"Ask who is arrived."
asleep.
a sleeper more inscrutable than its busy inhabitants are, in their
asleep, his white hair picturesque on the untroubled pillow, and his
A slight frown and a laconic "Yes," were the answer.
a slight frown on her lieutenant's lips, "hear me speak. My husband,
"As long as you don't know whether they are in that room or not, you are
a small folded paper. The rider's horse was blown, and both horse and
a small sword, with which, in delicate finesse, he ran him through the
As Mr. Lorry received these confidences, and as he watched the face of
as much as I have, or more than I have. Why, I have been ashamed of your
as much pride as she could possibly have taken in her own hair if she
As my beloved child was helpful in restoring me to myself, I will be
as of a great storm in France with a dreadful sea rising.
"A solitary old bachelor," answered Mr. Lorry, shaking his head. "There
aspect, and, presenting as respectable and business-like an exterior as
aspect, I am sorry that the thing is dropped, because it would have been
aspect, tall, in wooden shoes that were clumsy even to the eyes of a
aspect, that all the eyes that were turned upon him, turned to them.
a Spirit moving among mortals.
as quickly as the journey can be made. Your preparations have been
as quiet as you leave him. In any case, I will take care of him until
as regularly, as if they had all been united in their English home. The
assassinated by somebody vindicating a difference of opinion was the
assertion of our station, in these days, might (I do not go so far as
"As she had mentioned her husband's name in the faith that I knew it,
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
assisted both. When the repast was fully discussed, the lion put his
assisted by the people, and gone in search of her husband. He found
assisted him to his feet.
assisted it by word or deed. So quick was the Tribunal to compensate
assisted. "I've seen him. Dead, is he?"
associations with your name."
association with a French family, might have known as much of their
association would renew it. I think that, henceforth, nothing but some
As soon as they were established in their new residence, and her father
assorted very well with that decoration, being of a surface black, with
as such, my maxim is, Confound their politics, Frustrate their knavish
assurance of my dolorous and unhappy service.
"Assuredly I did."
assure himself that his son-in-law was, through no malice or mischance,
a steep hill. A blush on the countenance of Monsieur the Marquis was
As the ancient clerk deliberately folded and superscribed the note,
As the captive of many years sat looking fixedly, by turns, at Mr.
As the concentrated expression returned to his forehead, he seemed to
As the day declined into the afternoon, and the air, which had been
as the frantic wielders of these weapons snatched them from the stream
As the grinning little man held out the pipe he was smoking, to explain
As their wine was measuring out, a man parted from another man in a
As the keeper of the wine-shop entered at the door, the spy saluted
As the last thing on earth that his heart was to warm and soften to, it
as the night drew on, the Marquis looked, with the air of one who was
As the patient eyes were lifted to his face, he saw a sudden doubt in
as the rest of the passengers did; not because they had the least relish
As the rider rattled down the hill again and through the street, the
As the road-mender plied his dusty labour, and the hail-clouds, rolling
As the sombre wheels of the six carts go round, they seem to plough up
As The Vengeance descends from her elevation to do it, the tumbrils
as they could do to hear one another, even then: so tremendous was the
"As they descend the hill like madmen running a race, he falls. They
as this child, and much less, have not been greatly considered? We have
as this dance. It was so emphatically a fallen sport--a something, once
as though it pitted its gravity and longevity against the levity and
as to get a cloak and hat put upon it, and to tempt it forth to find
"As to me, the greatest desire I have, is to forget that I belong to it.
astonished?"
       A Story of the French Revolution
A STORY OF THE FRENCH REVOLUTION
"As to thee," pursued madame, implacably, addressing her husband, "if it
"As to the future," said the Doctor, recovering firmness, "I should have
"As to the great service," said Carton, "I am bound to avow to you, when
As to the strength of his case, he had not a doubt about it, but clearly
as to the striking of a light and the lighting of his pipe, he was
As to this, his natural and not to be alienated inheritance, the
astounded, "that I should have done him any wrong. I never thought this
"As to you," said she, "you would shout and shed tears for anything, if
a stranger, to be directed towards the National Palace. Madame Defarge
a structure yet unbuilt, where they were to sit knitting, knitting,
A sumptuous man was the Farmer-General. Thirty horses stood in his
A supper-table was laid for two, in the third of the rooms; a round
A suspended interest and a prevalent absence of mind, were perhaps
as usual; and was there any sign within their range, that the change of
As was natural, the head-quarters and great gathering-place of
a sweet, bright constancy is in the patient face. She goes next before
"As we happen to be alone for the moment, and are both people of
"As _you_ say," madame retorted, correcting him, and deftly knitting an
at a disadvantage. These little instruments of correction, these gentle
at a distance. It was a dark winter day, and what with the shadows
at a doleful grating, by which any languishing good airs that were left
A TALE OF TWO CITIES
"At a little after midnight."
at all known him in his present character. For the first time the Doctor
A tall man in a nightcap had caught up a bundle from among the feet of
at all, though he echoed his word. "Well; he may be."
at a loss how to answer; finally, answered not at all.
at an hour's distance from my place of residence in the Street of the
at another time, and such fraternal embraces were bestowed upon the
"At another time, sir," he returned, evasively, "the present time is
at a place of refreshment and fell sound asleep after dinner. For the
at a quick mistake, and when I make one it takes the form of Lead. So
at arm's length and to have the stool well between them: "what's a
at Calais, and similar lists to French gentlemen, both at Calais and
at Defarge's wine-shop door, they are not easily purified when once
ate and drank what they gave him to eat and drink, and put on the cloak
ate it in fear, with the door barred and the shutters closed, that his
A terrible sound arose when the reading of this document was done. A
At every juryman's vote, there was a roar. Another and another. Roar and
at every place, high and low, from the king's palace to the criminal's
at every step, and all the shops shutting up before it. Its destination
At every vote (the Jurymen voted aloud and individually), the populace
"At extermination," said madame.
At first, his mind reverted to Defarge, and he thought of finding out
At first, there were times, though she was a perfectly happy young wife,
At first, they were read as D. I. C.; but, on being more carefully
at hand. However, father and daughter did at last appear, and Miss Pross
at her with some curiosity.
at him.
at him, and led the way. Both the women followed; the second woman being
at him by stealth, for it is afraid. But it always looks up, from a
at him, like a sea, or a wind, or a fire. Eager faces strained round
at him, "that you have used the respectable and great house of Tellson's
a third, presented the favoured napkin; a fourth (he of the two gold
at his hands more than once.
at his length on the floor. After taking a timid peep at him lying on
at home. At first, he slept heavily, but, by degrees, began to roll
a three-cornered spittoon, and over a great muffler for the chin and
a time, when he was requested to do so; but, no persuasion would extract
at intervals clear enough to allow the French coast to be seen, became
at intervals from the adjoining room. He paced up and down for a long
at Jerry in considerable doubt and mistrust. That honest tradesman's
"At last it is come, my dear!"
"'At last she is dead?' said the elder, when I went in.
At last, the top of the staircase was gained, and they stopped for the
At length, a person better informed on the merits of the case, tumbled
At length the jackal had got together a compact repast for the lion, and
At length the new postilions are in their saddles, and the old are left
At length the sun rose so high that it struck a kindly ray as of hope or
at me."
at me? I am not so much to look at, am I? Why don't you go and fetch
at me with all his skill for his life.'
at me with a whip. But I, though a common dog, so struck at him as to
at naught.
at neighbouring barricades in all directions, shrieks, volleys,
atonement is made for this, it will one day be required of him. What
at Paris. Whatever might befall now, he must on to his journey's end.
A trading-boat, with a sail of the softened colour of a dead leaf, then
A trying suspense, to be passing a whole summer night on the brink of
"At sunset."
attached, and who is so devotedly attached to him? Believe me, Miss
attached to it. He opened this, carefully, on his knee, and it contained
attachment, all was done. He never thought of Carton. His mind was so
attack?"
attempt on the first day, and resolved merely to keep himself always
attempt to practise for popularity on the lowest national antipathies
attended by her cavalier.
attended him in his last illness. He was buried in London, at the church
attended to as the brighter clothes of happy days. She lost her colour,
attend while Mr. Attorney-General turned the whole suit of clothes Mr.
attention and curiosity at the prisoner.
attention, and show him where you stand. Then what you have to do, is,
attention, its capacity of helping such a look was to be found in the
attention. It was not merely desirable to avoid overloading the coach,
attention. Looking that way, Mr. Cruncher made out that some kind of
attention to the last--to the last, Jacques, prolonged until nightfall,
attentively, with as little appearance as possible of doing so. He
attentive pupil before his catechist, "I do not question all this. But
attentive; watched the opening proceedings with a grave interest;
at that time easily found; Princes that had been, and Kings that were
"At that time--I may ask, at what time, sir?"
at that untimely hour?"
at the back of the tumbril with his head bent down, to converse with a
at the Bailey. What, in the name of the Father of Lies, own father to
at the bottom of the hill, a broad sweep and rise beyond it, a
at the cathedral some few minutes before her escort, and waiting there,
at the ceiling of the court; they went the same Circuit, and even there
at the chateau dropped unseen and unheard--both melting away, like the
at the deserted chateau far away beyond the heaving water and the long,
at the floor on one side of him; then similarly, at the floor on the
at the foot of the same scaffold, not long before, to be allowed to
at the fountain not far away; to whom the mender of roads, with the aid
At the instant when Darnay saw a rush in the eyes of the crowd, which
at their leisure whether he should give her his hand a week or two
at the Jury and the turbulent audience, he might have thought that the
"--At the last post. How many to the Guillotine to-day?"
at the moment, and touched Mr. Lorry on the arm.
at the Old Bailey, just as they paid to see the play in Bedlam--only the
at the prison, and putting his ten fingers before his face to represent
At the steepest point of the hill there was a little burial-ground,
at the table, and said, "Now I am ready!"
at the window. He was in his usual morning dress, and his face (which
at this!" he said. Mr. Lorry nodded his consent. He opened it, and
At this second interchange of the Christian name, Madame Defarge, still
At this, the nearest stone face seemed to stare amazed, and, with open
at this time, for you to be out in, unprotected; and as your escort
at those times, they quietly spoke of Lucie, and of her father then
attitude, but drained his little glass of cognac, took a sip of fresh
attitude were, on the whole, sublime. That, he had been the prisoner's
attitude, with one of his stained shoes jerked off his foot into his
Attorney-General's) father and mother. That, he called with confidence
attracted Mr. Lorry's eyes to Carton's face, which was turned to the
attraction. His latent uneasiness had been, that bad aims were being
attributable to some influence of mine--this is what I mean, if I can
a turbulent and heated working of his heart, that contended against
"At what hour did he come on board?"
at work on the hill-top beyond the village, with his day's dinner (not
audible any day, and which was shunned by all of them at night. In
audience on the crimes against the people, of the king and the royal
Author: Charles Dickens
authoritative too. They had the air of a rough tribunal; Jacques One
authority, had remarked that carriages were good to make bonfires with,
avail him nothing.
a vegetable or two from the garden, and change them into anything she
avenues of leafless trees. Have these men deceived us, and taken us back
A very few French leagues of his journey were accomplished, when Charles
a very little quantity of hair: not more than one or two long golden
a violent passage into the other world: traversing some two miles and a
a voice, or a hand, or even an eye was raised. Among the men, not one.
Avoiding the larger rooms, which were dark and made fast for the night,
awaited his further pleasure for half an hour: sometimes, pacing to and
Awakened by a timid local functionary and three armed patriots in rough
awaken, with such feelings roused. It was well guarded, and he got up to
aware of had stood, was not yet empty.
a watch-fire. Here he paid a heavy price for his escort, and hence he
a watchful eye that seldom seemed to look at anything, a large hand
a wave of her hand towards the place where they had last been apparent;
away from in dread--pressed him into an obscure corner among the crowd.
away. I had heard them, alone at the bedside, striking their boots with
away. "On the drunken occasion in question (one of a large number, as
away, revealed bright bars and streaks of sky which were responded to
away so fiercely, that Charles had lain in prison one year and three
away the key. She then sat down on the stairs a few moments to breathe
away with their dread loads over the hushing snow.
a weak rattle in its throat, you fell into Tellson's down two steps,
awfulness, even of Death itself, is referable to this. No more can I
awful nightmare, they had helped the healer, and tended the wounded man
A white flag from within the fortress, and a parley--this dimly
A wild-looking woman, whom even in his agitation, Mr. Lorry observed to
a will, and with conwictions respectin' the futur' keepin' of 'em safe.
A woman of orderly and industrious appearance rose from her knees in a
A wonderful corner for echoes, it has been remarked, that corner where
A wonderful fact to reflect upon, that every human creature is
a wooden stool, made out of a broken-backed chair cut down, which stool,
a word from him. He worked, and worked, and worked, in silence, and
a word of it--not a syllable of it. Knitted, in her own stitches and her
a word of the true reason of his restlessness, to her, and she finds it
a world of wrong, injuring every human creature who came between us and
axe, and hammer the nails into the scaffold.
"Ay, ay, why not!" cried the sawyer. "Every day, in all weathers, from
Ay! Louder, Vengeance, much louder, and still she will scarcely hear
"A young lady's walking shoe," he muttered, without looking up. "It
"Ay. Yes," was the grim reply of Monsieur Defarge.
back and the guard looked back, and even the emphatic leader pricked up
bad!"
bad bread; at the sausage-shop, in every dead-dog preparation that
bad fortune, and my good fortune, that has kept me out of a prison in
"Bad Fortune!" cries The Vengeance, stamping her foot in the chair, "and
bad witness."
"Bah! Go aside!" said Monsieur Gabelle.
baker's shelves, written in every small loaf of his scanty stock of
banker, no old business, no old servant, no old time, rising in your
Banking House. Miss Pross had lighted the lamp, but had put it aside in
banking-house towards four o'clock. She had some faint hopes that his
bank-notes--may not the retention of the thing involve the retention of
Bank. The stately residence of Monseigneur was altogether blighted and
bank. When he awoke and was afoot again, he lingered there yet a little
bar?"
barbarous manner. But, few cared enough for that to think of it a second
barber. He was so very demonstrative herein, that he might have been
bare-armed, soot-begrimed workman reading a journal aloud, and of
barrier, and gained us news of Charles there, and brought us here. I
Barrier--I did not estimate the distance at that time, but afterwards
Barsad."
'BARSAD' before you go."
Barsad leaned back in his chair, and stammered, "What do you mean?"
"Barsad," repeated madame. "Good. Christian name?"
"Barsad?" repeated the old gentleman, "Barsad? I have an association
"Barsad," said another voice, striking in.
"Barsad," said Defarge, making it French by pronunciation. But, he had
Barsad, still in the pay of the aristocratic English government, is the
bars, peeped through them jocosely.
bars to his window as if that were ruled for figures too, and everything
basket. Every afternoon at about the time when the public lamps were
Bastille memorials borne in procession, and had kept it, biding their
Bastille; the gentleman's, all negligent indifference; the peasant's, all
Bastille thrown upon him by a summer sun, when the substance was three
be."
be able to decipher it--or, I ought to say, will she?"
beach, or the specks of sail that glinted in the sunlight far at sea. A
be a good deed to seize that arm, lift it, and strike under it sharp and
be agreeable, who takes more pains to be agreeable, who knows better how
be a highly intelligent man, capable of close application of mind, and
be all of a red colour, and to have red hair, and to be dressed in some
be a man, wot will errand you, message you, general-light-job you, till
beaming at all this in his little wig, and thanking his bachelor
bearing down upon them, too.
bear testimony to what I have said, and to your belief in it. I hope you
bear, who was black and very mangy, gave quite an Undertaking air to
be ashamed of anything," returned Sydney; "you ought to be much obliged
be a strange night to you, standing alone here with your counterpart on
beasts, the powerful frame attenuated by spare living, and the sullen
beating, the sea raging and thundering on its new beach, the attack
beautiful colour faded away into a poor weak stain. So sunken and
beautifully formed otherwise, was very slightly pinched at the top
beautifying features of Monseigneur.
beauty springing up anew at your feet, think now and then that there is
Beauvais) he had heard absolutely nothing. The escort and the universal
Beauvais that night to help them out of it and they passed on once more
became manifest.
Because he had voluntarily relinquished a title that was distasteful
because I believe there is contamination in such a scoundrel. That's
"because, if I should make a mistake, it could never be set right in
because it would be dangerous. Better not to mention the subject,
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
"Because," said Mr. Lorry, "I wouldn't go on such an object without
because they were not rich, and Charles, throughout his imprisonment,
because you are such an insensible dog."
beckoned to the young lady, and they, too, went out. Madame Defarge
become conscious that it was in hers too. He turned her full to the
become oblivious of the existence of the paper, or had had it recalled
"Be comforted!" he said, "I am not worth such feeling, Miss Manette. An
becoming more and more spiky as the law terms bristled it, made out with
bed.
bed, and her head had gradually fallen on the pillow beside her pretty
bed, and looked back from the hill, the shadow struck across the church,
bedroom. Passing lightly across the intermediate room, she looked in at
bed, was not long after his father. Under cover of the darkness he
been a drinking!"
been a hundred thousand years away. The "sharp female newly-born, and
been already tinged with grey.
been anybody's business, at the house of Monseigneur. Military officers
been at it from morning to night to prevent me from being the better for
been born alive, or the poor mother's shock had killed it. Whether it
been close together during this brief discourse, and it had been as much
been difficult to guess to what dreadful place, though no art could
been discharged into the street free, but at whom a mistaken savage had
been extinguished.
been got out of Paris, legs uppermost and half suffocated, in a load of
been holden.
been infinitely less remarkable if he had said it with his head off.
been in his own coach and six, or his own coach and sixty, with the
been kicked? Might have been. Frequently? No. Ever kicked downstairs?
been laid low in the streets, in any of the many encounters in which
been looking at the ceiling of the court, wrote a word or two on a
been married many weeks, when that man's brother saw her and admired
been much the same sort of fellow, if I had had any luck."
been no such Revolution, if all laws, forms, and ceremonies, had not
been one among other reasons why the worshippers of Monseigneur never
been ordered to the axe to-morrow, would she have gone to it with any
been overshadowed by that cloud for years past, a letter de cachet would
been pulled down, and some area-railings had been torn up, to arm
been so careful to get it accurately, that he then spelt it with perfect
been so degraded but that the sight of you with your father, and of this
been so hard with you that you ask me such a cruel question?"
been strikingly expressive of an engrossing terror and compassion
been the history of this unfortunate gentleman, the Doctor of Beauvais."
be ever read by men or not, at the Eternal Judgment-seat.
"Be explicit," said the Doctor. "Spare no detail."
befitting the state of a marquis in a luxurious age and country.
before), and resumed his former attitude.
before, but no skill could have saved him if it had been looked to
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
before, had this work always ready for it now, that it could strike.
beforehand.
before him; after grasping the hand of Mr. Lorry, who came panting in
before him, and his fully half-insolent manner upon him.
before him: and nearly opposite another wigged gentleman with his hands
before him, as a silent protest against the delusion into which he had
before him, asked if he had yet discovered any traces of the person to
before him into imaginary beds of flowers in a garden; and his efforts
before him, to compose his mind to what it must bear. His hold on life
before him, with her appealing hands upon his breast.
before his mind, as the hour, and so to strengthen himself in the
before I can."
"Before I go," he said, and paused--"I may kiss her?"
before it, and men clutching each other and clutching children out of
Before it had set in dark on the night of his condemnation, he had
before it. In the meantime, it is always preparing, though it is not
before Michaelmas Term, or in the little Christmas vacation between it
before now. I believe it."
"Before Shrewsbury, and at Shrewsbury, and ever since Shrewsbury,"
Before that unjust Tribunal, there was little or no order of procedure,
before the elder said:
before the first of the persons with whom this history has business.
before the morning blast, as if the desert-sand had risen far away, and
before the sequestration of emigrant property, I had remitted the
before the Tribunal. He has not received the notice yet, but I know
began.
began to be audible. Several doors were opened in succession, and
Beginning to be struck by Defarge's manner, Mr. Lorry looked dubiously
begin to discharge their loads. The ministers of Sainte Guillotine are
beg the favour of his waiting for me here."
begun cautiously to hew away the lower staves of the ladder on which
be half hanged, and then he'll be taken down and sliced before his own
beheaded, and quartered, by everybody there, neither flinched from
beheld in all the wide dominions of sleep, that night.
beheld the coach start, had known who it was that Solomon brought, had
behind.
behind, and Monseigneur, again escorted by the Furies, was rapidly
behind, and why not? But the frightened valet had got down in a hurry,
behind in the churchyard, to confer and condole with the undertakers.
behind them, for I want you to take the verdict back to the bank. You
behind. We are through the village, up the hill, and down the hill, and
"Behold your papers, Jarvis Lorry, countersigned."
be in a Blazing bad way, if recalling to life was to come into fashion,
be indebted to you, sir. For the rest, it is my Refuge."
being from home, to beg to speak to you."
being heard, and rapidly expounded the story of the imprisonment, and of
being so attended, and apart from such considerations of present danger
being thereby rendered practicable, Mr. Lorry resolved to watch him
be instructed. I may go on?"
be left so desolate, and who would mourn for her so much, swelled to her
be; let him be! He will be judged at Paris."
believed in where the Cross was denied.
believed, when they had bowed a customer out, still to keep on bowing in
believe it--in some cases--to be quite impossible."
"Believe it, love! Indeed it is so. Consider how natural and how plain
believe, that the circumstances likely to renew it are exhausted."
believeth in me shall never die."
believeth in me, shall never die."
believe your intention is to perpetuate, and not to weaken, the ties
bell, and died on her bosom.'
bell of the great gate rang again, and a loud noise of feet and voices
bell on the table, "and accept your natural destiny. But you are lost,
bell-ringing, and bethinking itself that Monsieur Gabelle had to do with
bell to quiet them. Which it did not, for they continued to cry "No!"
belonging to the circumstances in which it has been nurtured, that it
belonging to them from being trampled under foot.
below; and, as the afternoon shadows deepened, the owner of that name
be more happy to execute it."
be mourning and grieving. She will be in a state of mind to impeach the
bench and to work.
bench and tray of tools, much as it had stood on the fifth floor of the
Bench-walk and Paper-buildings, turned into the Stryver chambers.
Beneath that arch of unmoved and eternal lights; some, so remote from
beneath the banking-house window that was nearest Temple Bar: where,
benefactors, this shining citizen would assuredly have had one. That, as
be no bridesmaid but the gaunt Miss Pross. The marriage was to make no
be no mistake about it."
be not half desk enough for him: "I am going to make an offer of myself
bent low over the shoemaking.
be prevented? How should a repetition of it be treated? How does it come
be regarded as an useless (and I would add, if it were not for the
be restored to you within a few hours; I have encompassed him with every
be restrained from making rather an ostentatious parade of his
be seen, spectacularly poring over large books, and casting his breeches
beside her husband's cheerfully." He faltered for an instant; then went
beside him, and he bent over his work.
beside him. He recoiled, but she laid her hand upon his arm. A strange
besides the cook in question.
Besides the glancing tears that shone among the smiles of the little
beside the driver.
besmeared that he might have been a sorely wounded soldier creeping back
be something short-sighted in the eternal arrangements, surely! Thus it
besought her--though he added that he knew it was needless--to console
be so, without looking at her, and said:
best not to hint at it to him. In silence they go walking up and down
Bestowing a word of promise here and a smile there, a whisper on one
bestow, O Guillotine!
best patriots there. Why not say so? You were a cannonier that day
be struck at from behind; remained immovable close to him when the
best spared. What do you say?"
be summoned some time earlier, inasmuch as the tumbrils jolted heavily
be sure that it was really there, he laid down his work, put his hand
be the most difficult of all; but, remembering his old Sunday morning
be; though, to be sure, you know well enough by this time that your
be took down and took to Mrs. Cruncher through yourself--that wot my
be tried. These judges, and all the men in power, are very friendly to
better employed brother than Mr. Barsad. I wish for your sake Mr. Barsad
better for it in appearance.
better got up both by Nature and Art, who had balances at Tellson's.
better man living to hold fast by what Tellson's had in keeping, and to
better. Miss Pross's friendship being of the thoroughly practical
better," said Jerry, not unlike a reluctant witness at the establishment
better so. Don't revive her to consciousness, while she only faints."
"Better to be a rational creature," he added then, after ringing a small
between every rapid sentence, and every rapid sentence a whole breath.
between me and my other and far dearer self. If she should ever tell me
Between the eyebrows and just over the little feminine nose, the line of
between them and the capital.
between them. Nobody else knew it to be his name; his own wife had no
between us, long ago, you will readily comprehend this when you see it.
between whom and you there is an impassable space. It is useless to say
"Be under no apprehension, Miss Manette, of my ever resuming this
be--unless he, the Doctor, dissolved the obligation--kept inviolate
be waiting for something with a dogged determination, and they looked at
be well content to precipitate himself over the hill-side once again, as
be what he was ordered.
bewildered in the doorway of the wood-sawyer's house, the feathery snow
beyond the reach of this man, and where, at least, she will never be
bidden himself away with it, when the women who had tended the bundle
big as he was, and four times as offensive.
billows rolled past, bearing the prison officers with them, and
birds wheeled about and dropped into the furnace; four fierce figures
birth, gradually making expiation for itself and wearing out.
birth, she appeared to have innately derived from it that ability to
bitter day, he wore no coat, but carried one slung over his shoulder.
bitterly or meaning to bear hard upon him, but as anybody might who saw
black, alternating with their broad lines of stone colour.
blameless though an unchanged mind, when she was a wife and a mother,
blank."
blessed birthday, of whom a prophetic private in the Life Guards had
blessed her."
blessing, and her overcoming of her sorrow, to devote herself to their
blessing, gave a chivalrous tone to things, was a polite example of
bless you!"
"Blest if I know," said Jerry.
"Blest if I know that either," said Jerry.
"Blest if she ain't in a queer condition!" said Mr. Cruncher, more and
blest off my table. Keep still!"
bloated face.
blood all chilled, "What shall I do! What shall I do!"
blood, and what with dropping wine, and what with the stream of sparks
blood into his face, brightened his glance, and animated his heart. If
blood-money, another fragment of ancestral wisdom, systematically
blood (suddenly of some value, after many years of worthlessness) be
blood. The narrative called up the most revengeful passions of the time,
blood-vessels into a dangerous state when it was his turn to be angry;
blotting-paper stage, remarked:
blunderbuss, his left at the barrel, and his eye on the horseman,
board.
boards, to make a certain movable framework with a sack and a knife in
boastfulness, but a wild infection of the wildly shaken public mind. In
body, and said,
body and spirit, nothing in that way was left for Heaven--which may have
body as far from it as she could, and ran down the stairs to call for
bodyguard on Sunday nights for a long time past and I am used to him.
body so sitting in judgment had risen and identified him, and that this
boldly reading the Lord's Prayer backwards for a great number of years,
book should shut with a spring, for ever and for ever, when I had read
     Book the First--Recalled to Life
Book the First--Recalled to Life
     Book the Second--the Golden Thread
Book the Second--the Golden Thread
     Book the Third--the Track of a Storm
Book the Third--the Track of a Storm
booted and equipped.
bootless attempts to bring him round to the question. "I have been to
born--"
bosom bared to this, the pretty almost-child's head thus distracted, the
bosom of Saint Antoine, while a speck in a blue cap toiled through the
bosom, was a loaded pistol. Lying hidden at her waist, was a sharpened
both ever tending to the plains beyond the range of red and purple where
both have been seen with her at that place. Don't look so horrified. You
both here yesterday, and both made you out to be more than due."
Both her hearers derived a horrible enjoyment from the deadly nature
both knew too well what it meant. One. Two. Three. Three tumbrils faring
both looked to the right and to the left into most of the shops they
Both Mr. Lorry and Defarge were rather disinclined to this course, and
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
both ways, at his side under the tree, many and many a time; but, this
"Both were so wrapped up, and the night was so dark, and we were all so
both were very watchful, and intent to deduce from look and manner, what
bottom of the steps on which he was raised, looking steadily up at him;
Boulogne. He loved his country, and couldn't bear it, and had given
bowed to the Judge, and stood quiet.
bowing behind the two counters, required the utmost remaining strength
box.
box in his pocket.
boy, and while I clean my boots keep a eye upon your mother now and
boy had addressed the elder brother, with the initial letter embroidered
boys who were small enough for his amiable purpose. Father and son,
branches, striding on cautiously to come together in the courtyard. Four
branch of Scientific goods."
branded into her forehead. So close was her hold upon his arm, that he
"Brave and generous friend, will you let me ask you one last question? I
bravely, 'Yes!' I kissed her hand, and she took him in her arms, and
brave old gentleman in whom duty was so strong; upon that comparison
brave the guillotine unnecessarily, and to die by it, was not mere
"Bravo!" said Defarge, clapping him on the back when it was over, like a
bread-and-butter, and seeming to help it down with a large invisible
bread-and-cheese towards your matrimonial picnic, Darnay!" The polite
bread; he ate of this between whiles, and sat munching and drinking near
bread I have eaten these sixty years--because I am a little stiff about
bread. Monsieur Gabelle had held the impoverished and involved estate
breadth of a county between him and the next.
breakfast, and all went well, and in due course the golden hair that had
breakfast. He resented Mrs. Cruncher's saying grace with particular
breakfast-hour, and should then meet the Doctor as if nothing unusual
break--the fourteenth Louis--was conspicuous in their rich furniture;
breast, and his glaring eyes looking straight upward. I could not see
breast, and love it back to life and hope--so exactly was the expression
breast and shaken form had long yielded to the calm that must follow all
breast, but with her alarmed eyes on her questioner and not on it, "has
breast, "it _is_ a long time."
breast of an army to bear Foulon company--set his head and heart on
breasts were dry with want! O mother of God, this Foulon! O Heaven our
breast when you were young and free, weep for it, weep for it! If, when
breast with his forefinger--they were now standing by the hearth--"you
breathless from his struggle against the waterspout of the Carmagnole;
breeding that it was not reassuring.
brick wall, surmounted by an iron railing. In the shadow of bank and
bridle (at which he was evidently making), and soothingly said, "Let him
bright eye, as it looked kindly at her, "that Doctor Manette has any
brightness, to sunshine on his face and shadow, to the paltering lumps
bring grist to the mill again.
bringing a troublesome creature into this world--which does not go far
bring me another pint of this same wine, drawer, and come and wake me at
"Bring me hither that fellow!" said the Marquis to the courier.
bring the dead out of their graves."
bring to him, begin. Let our good friend here, assist you on that side.
bring you to misery, bring you to sorrow and repentance, blight you,
briskly fall to his sawing again.
broke, and they caught him shrieking; then, the rope was merciful, and
broke, and they caught him shrieking; twice, he went aloft, and the rope
broken any more as long as my life lasts."
broken under the weight of his foot.
broke off abruptly at the doors. The kennel, to make amends, ran down
brood.
brooding look which made him old, had been upon him, like a heavy cloud,
brooding than drinking; for, many men had listened and whispered and
brother--and what that is, will not be long unknown to you, Doctor, if
"Brother, brother!" cried Miss Pross, bursting into tears. "Have I ever
brother, I saw him looking down at this handsome boy whose life was
brothers and sisters, and honoured him more than his (Mr.
brother's (as I call him) having crossed swords with a peasant, and that
brother's eyes, their expression reminded me that he disliked me deeply,
brothers, in all these frightful years, to grant me any tidings of
brothers she was sinking fast, and could not live another day. Until
brother took her away; in spite of what I know she must have told his
brother you have heard of," said Sydney, "and has acknowledged the
brought a long journey on foot to Paris. On the road I have suffered a
brought back," said Madame Defarge to herself.
brought him to himself."
brought none. Where could he be?
brought singly, and by which they were rapidly ordered to be put forth
brought some sense of better things, else forgotten and unattainable,
brought the coast down, madly. The air among the houses was of so strong
brought them down and handed them in;--and immediately afterwards leaned
brought the words home, like a rusty old ship's anchor from the deep,
brought to me, that these remembrances arise, and pass between us and
brought to the door, and bent to carry it away.
brought to the North Tower they found these upon my sleeve. 'You will
brown suit of clothes, pretty well worn, but very well kept, with large
brute I am; I wish you'd give me a little brandy."
building, but the true-hearted old gentleman never calculated about
bulky bundle of opposite passenger, became the bank, and did a great
"Buried how long?"
burning of the body (previously reduced to pieces convenient for the
burnt out, and the day is gleaming in above those shutters and between
buryin'."
business."
business-absorption, Mr. Lorry had become the Doctor's friend, and the
business air. "It is necessary to register him. How do they call that
business all day, that we have not known what to do first, or which way
business altogether, with heavy stone balustrades, and stone urns, and
business, and that I must prepare myself to find them of a surprising
business. As I was saying--"
"Business! Bless you, _I_ have no business," said Mr. Carton.
business character.
business he got, the greater his power seemed to grow of getting at its
business," he said, when they had got back to the drawing-room and had
business if I am confused? Let us be clear-headed. If you could kindly
business, I know nothing of it. But, as an old fellow, who has carried
"business is a very good thing, and a very respectable thing. And, sir,
"Business is very bad; the people are so poor."
business life, just as I pass from one of our customers to another in
business mind is divided between good-natured impulse and business
business, Monseigneur had the other truly noble idea that it must all go
business perceived an advantage here, and determined to hold it.
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
"Business seems bad?"
business shining on his cheek. "Come in, come in!"
"Bust me, if she ain't at it agin!"
busy, making shoes.
"But access to him," said Mr. Lorry, "if it should go ill before the
But, all this was at first. Before long, the consideration that there
but also I feel that if I delay, there is danger of his giving warning,
"But, although you are the youngest man that ever lived," said Charles
But, an affectionate glance at his wife, so happy and busy, made him
but a page. It was appointed that the water should be locked in an
But, a remarkable improvement came upon him as to this. The more
but a short time." Then he added, raising his voice, "I grieve to inform
"But ask yourself the question now."
But, as the fingers went, the eyes went, and the thoughts. And as Madame
But, before she could repeat the question, he murmured an answer as if
"But, consider. Is he fit for the journey?" asked Mr. Lorry.
"But, Doctor Manette. Look at me!"
"But, do not believe," said Darnay, upon whose ear the mournful voice
but do you know how easy it has grown for me, the wearer of this, to
But for my great respect for your sister, I might not have led up so
But for the latter inconvenience, the carriage probably would not have
but for the yet lingering consideration that her brother Solomon should
"But for you, dear stranger, I should not be so composed, for I am
"But go and see that droll dog," the little man persisted, calling after
but had been able to detect no sign. They had lounged away in a
but he cannot touch it; thereupon they laugh again. They bring him into
But, he feigned not to notice the two strangers, and fell into discourse
But he had married in England? the President reminded him.
But, he had never seen his friend in his present aspect: he had never
But, he had oppressed no man, he had imprisoned no man; he was so
"But he has been--been found. He is alive. Greatly changed, it is too
but he observed it as a curiosity. The Doctor knew, that up to that
but her children had a strange sympathy with him--an instinctive
But, her courage was of that emotional nature that it brought the
But, he was not far off, for presently she heard a troubled movement
But, he went his way, and was soon swallowed up in the shadow of the
But he will perish; there is no real hope."
But, his long-cherished desire to know more about these matters, not
"But, however that may be," resumed the nephew, glancing at him with
"But I do, and you must take my word for it. Well! If you could endure
"But I do ask why?"
"But I don't know how to originate, in such a case. If your sagacity,
"But I hope," said the gentleman, following the chief gaoler with his
But indeed, at that time, putting to death was a recipe much in vogue
But, in the composure of his manner he was unaltered, except that to the
But, in the ocean of faces where every fierce and furious expression was
But, in the stillness of the third hour of the morning, Lucie came
But, it beckoned him back in his sleep, and showed itself in shining
"But it does matter," Mr. Lorry urged.
"But it is very strange--now, at least, is it not very strange"--said
"But it's not my business," said he. And went on sawing his wood.
but, it was diversified by many objects that were illustrations of old
but it was of the highest importance that the time occupied in examining
but I wish you to know that you inspired it."
"But I would hold a pretty wager, sir, that a House like Tellson and
but love and consolation.
but made use of them, as people not unfrequently do, to express general
"But may not--mind! I ask for information, as a plodding man of business
but, most especially the last. Samples of a people that had undergone a
"But my dear!" began Defarge.
"But my dear!" repeated madame, nodding firmly; "but my dear! You are
"But never by me, Citizen Defarge."
but not being a poet, mused as little as possible, and looked about him.
But, not for long. Presently, the chateau began to make itself strangely
But not for long. Releasing his arm, she laid her hand upon his
but not many; there were officers to guard the soldiers, but not one of
but one person left of all the crowd, and he, with his hat under his arm
"But our Defarge," said Jacques Three, "is undoubtedly a good
But, perhaps the confidential bachelor clerks in Tellson's Bank were
but pondering and self-communing. When this expression was upon him, he
but she is worthy of good fortune. Are you astonished?"
but she stayed them with a motion of her hand. She had no fear of his
but signified his pleasure that they should retire under watch and ward,
But, such awful workers, and such awful work!
butt-ends of muskets.
but that there was such a sister; beyond that, I knew nothing. Her
"But that very circumstance would be alarming, when we remember how
but, the changed times were fraught with other obstacles than
But, the comfort was, that all the company at the grand hotel of
But, the gaol was a vile place, in which most kinds of debauchery and
But, the glorious sun, rising, seemed to strike those words, that burden
But the man continuing to exclaim, "Down, Evremonde!" the face of
But then, blessed with the relief of tears, I fell upon my knees, and
"But the question, Doctor Manette. Is there"--it was the good creature's
But, the question reminded him of his work, and he bent over it again.
"But there are no such decrees yet?"
But, there remained a broken country, bold and open, a little village
But, there were other echoes, from a distance, that rumbled menacingly
but, these were few. The great majority were silent and still, looking
But the shadow of the manner of these Defarges was dark upon himself,
but the straight hair of their dumpling heads.
But, the suppressed manner had enough of menace in it--not visible and
But the woman who stood knitting looked up steadily, and looked the
"But this is my father's story, sir; and I begin to think"--the
But, this was not the change on the village, and on many a village like
But, though the bank was almost always with him, and though the coach
But, though the Doctor tried hard, and never ceased trying, to get
but two in number, even if a closet with a single pane of glass in it
but, was now law for everybody.
"But what did I know? The deed was not then accomplished, neither did he
But when he did find spoken words for it, they came to him coherently,
But, when his nephew, leaning an elbow on the table, covered his eyes
"But when it is ready, it takes place, and grinds to pieces everything
But when they came to the town of Beauvais--which they did at eventide,
but when they had done descending, and were winding and climbing up a
but which he did not doubt would be found among the papers then before
but yield to, will render me less worth such tears as those, than any
"But you are not English," said the wood-sawyer, "though you wear
But, you understand that that was not the child I am speaking of?"
B-u-u-ust me!" said Mr. Cruncher, who all this time had been putting
Buzzing from the blue-flies.
by a great number of people. In the gloomy tile-paved entry to the
by-and-bye; but I will do my duty while I can, and when I leave her, God
by-and-bye into our lives."
by-and-bye she sank into a lethargy, and lay like the dead.
by another road? Is not this the same place twice over? Thank Heaven,
by anticipation, riding with him and keeping him in charge. He had been
By Charles Dickens
by degrees he calmed into the better state, when he could raise his
by fasting and seeing of spirits. Among these, accordingly, much
By good fortune she had a veil on her bonnet, or she could hardly have
by her left hand, Madame Defarge said nothing when her lord came in, but
by him as a projectile for the correction of Mrs. Cruncher, in case
by his cabinet minister, driving the mourning coach. A bear-leader, a
by his name, what he has in his hand. O pity us, kind Heaven, and help
"By his tall figure," said the mender of roads, softly, and with his
by jerks, the night shadows outside the coach would fall into the train
by no means delicate, but the stock of wine smelt much stronger than
by only a pronoun, which is not much) ran: "The earth and the fulness
by saying to him with a frown, "Witness at that trial." Mr. Lorry
by silver gleams upon the landscape, the little man (who wore a red cap
by so many little adornments, of no value but for their taste and fancy,
by something like a faint pulsation; then, they gave a look of
by taking to themselves the upper rooms formerly belonging to the
By that time, there was only one adventurous traveller left be
by the Bank that the gentleman would explain to me the details of the
"By the cathedral door," said Miss Pross. "Would it be much out of
by the dialogue taking a turn that did not seem to promise bloodshed,
"By the help of Heaven you shall! Promise me solemnly that nothing will
by their needy brethren. To which it must be added that every new-comer
by the light of this lamp. Ask him, is that so."
by the service of Four fierce hours.
by the two Evremonde brothers, as that Bastille paper describes, is my
by this letter. The peril of an old servant and a good one, whose
"By whom?"
by your old love, or by your little children, were but newly released
called away professionally, and referring to an imaginary letter of
called Darnay.
called Darnay, in right of such proscription, absolutely Dead in Law.
called La Guillotine," was hardly known to him, or to the generality
called Life must hush at last--they came forward to raise the father and
call it my Little Guillotine. La, la, la; La, la, la! And off his head
calls you Solomon, and she must know, being your sister. And _I_ know
came in. Madame Defarge was a stout woman of about his own age, with
came on board in the dead of the night?"
came pouring into the courtyard.
can arise from our manner of keeping the register? Without doubt it is
can be done, it has been attempted, and has always failed. I implore you
candles, he saw standing to receive him by the table between them and
can have few parallels, even in the tenderness between a father and
"Can I do anything for you, Mr. Stryver?" asked Mr. Lorry, in his
Can I spare this Doctor to my husband? I have no feeling either way. Can
"Can it be true," said Defarge, in a low voice, looking down at his wife
cannibal-looking, bloody-minded juryman, the Jacques Three of St.
Cannon, muskets, fire and smoke; but, still the deep ditch, the single
cannon, muskets, fire and smoke. One drawbridge down! "Work, comrades
cannot pay something?"
cannot speak of one without the other; and I must not be silent, and
cannot tell you at this time, and I cannot tell you here. All that I may
can say, but he knows of one."
"Can't be helped," said Miss Pross, shaking her head. "Touch that
can't find it. What have they done with my work? Time presses: I must
can't overstay my time. You told me you had a proposal; what is it?
"Can you identify him as your fellow-passenger on board the packet, or
captivity, as I saw them all that night.
card--a certain Guillotine card! Do you play?"
card. Inference clear as day in this region of suspicion, that Mr.
card-towers of Babel to scale the skies with, talked with Unbelieving
cared to talk, he talked well; but, the cloud of caring for nothing,
care for no man on earth, and no man on earth cares for me."
carefully from the spot--had then caught up their weapons and plunged
care of him. There were no other passengers that night, but we four.
care of itself. I give you that advice."
care of your chest and voice, my good friend, and leave the law to take
caressingly, as if it had been a human breast, and could be expected to
caricaturing of woe, the disorderly procession went its way, recruiting
Carmagnole.
carriage. All his fellows stooped to look under the carriage.
carriage and leisurely mount the box, to look at what little luggage it
carriage having already gone from here to-day, it might awaken
carriage turned about, and drove on at its former speed.
carried him in an instant to the heart of the concourse at the stone.
carried home by the people to-day, may be condemned tomorrow. Now, the
carried in my pocket-book," with a hurried hand he produced and opened
carries on the roof; the country-people hanging about, press nearer to
carrying a light. There, with closed doors, and in a mysterious and
carry the lists of his day's duties, fell lightly on the floor. Carton
Carton. At this, he laughed again, and they both laughed.
"Carton! Dear Carton! It is madness. It cannot be accomplished, it never
Carton followed the lines and words of his paper, with a slow
Carton, he always had his points at his fingers' ends in the morning.
Carton, it would have been seen to be the same influence exactly.
Carton of old Shrewsbury School was to shoulder him into it, "your way
Carton, pressing forward, had already, with the speed of lightning, got
Carton rejoining, "Nothing in life!" Darnay rang. "Do you call the whole
"Carton," said his friend, squaring himself at him with a bullying air,
Carton's hand moved back to his breast no more. The prisoner sprang up
Carton's negligent recklessness of manner came powerfully in aid of his
Carton, still drinking the punch, rejoined, "Why should I be
Carton, still drinking the punch, rejoined, "Why should I not approve?"
Carton stooped to pick up the coat, which lay almost entangling his
Carton terminated the conversation here, by rising to help him on with
"Carton, there is no escaping from this place; it never can be done. You
Carton, with his right hand in his breast, stood close beside him.
case and for the sake of illustration, that he had been used, in his bad
case could be.
cashiers, and shouldered himself into the musty back closet where Mr.
cast its shadow beyond myself, and would have fallen on you."
cast up the years of her age, year after year. I have seen her married
catching sight of that novelty, they faltered, made a pretence of
caught of the jumbled neighbourhood; and nothing within range, nearer
causes and reasons that will tell as such with the young lady. The young
cause when I might have kep' it back."
cautious touch.
ceased to run, all through the night. He was on his way to dig some one
ceiling, and waved them like spectral wings.
ceiling, stared at him. All the human breath in the place, rolled
celestial witness.
cell in the Bastille, during the last month of the year, 1767. I write
central point of interest. Two gaolers, who had been standing there,
Centre of Truth--which did not need much demonstration--but had not got
certain knowledge, before?"
"Certainly; and in these chambers."
certainly not, show me the neck of an aristocrat and tyrant, and still I
certain, on reflection, that I ever should have committed myself to
Certain small packets were made and given to him. He put them, one by
certainty; but, beyond this, he dreaded nothing distinctly. With this on
chain. Behold the manner of it. I leaving my work on the road, the sun
chain under the carriage. That fountain suggested the Paris fountain,
chair--who must not be seen? From whom newly arrived, did he come out,
chair with his foot near to mine, ordered the woman away, and said in a
challenged by his fellow-tradesman whom he stopped in his character of
chamber and cried. The Doctor was a pleasant sight too, looking on at
chamber there!--And burn Monsieur my nephew in his bed, if you will," he
"Changed!"
changed neither his place nor his attitude, even in this excitement.
change, except of horses and pace, all the mire-deep leagues that lay
change in their place of residence; they had been able to extend it,
Changeless and hopeless, the tumbrils roll along.
change that the face ever showed, resided. They persisted in changing
change to have come over the Doctor; as if the golden arm uplifted
changingly speckled by the rustle of the plane-tree in the yard, was the
Channel, one cold time, when the hail drifted heavily and the sea ran
     Chapter I      Five Years Later
     Chapter II     A Sight
     Chapter III    A Disappointment
     Chapter III    The Night Shadows
     Chapter III    The Shadow
     Chapter I      In Secret
     Chapter II     The Grindstone
     Chapter II     The Mail
     Chapter I      The Period
     Chapter IV     Calm in Storm
     Chapter IV     Congratulatory
     Chapter IV     The Preparation
     Chapter IX     The Game Made
     Chapter IX     The Gorgon's Head
     Chapter VI     Hundreds of People
     Chapter VII    A Knock at the Door
     Chapter VIII   A Hand at Cards
     Chapter VIII   Monseigneur in the Country
     Chapter VII    Monseigneur in Town
     Chapter VI     The Shoemaker
     Chapter VI     Triumph
     Chapter V      The Jackal
     Chapter V      The Wine-shop
     Chapter V      The Wood-sawyer
     Chapter XI     A Companion Picture
     Chapter XI     Dusk
     Chapter XII    Darkness
     Chapter XIII   Fifty-two
     Chapter XIII   The Fellow of no Delicacy
     Chapter XII    The Fellow of Delicacy
     Chapter XIV    The Honest Tradesman
     Chapter XIV    The Knitting Done
     Chapter XIX    An Opinion
     Chapter X      The Substance of the Shadow
     Chapter X      Two Promises
     Chapter XVIII  Nine Days
     Chapter XVII   One Night
     Chapter XVI    Still Knitting
     Chapter XV     Knitting
     Chapter XV     The Footsteps Die Out For Ever
     Chapter XX     A Plea
     Chapter XXI    Echoing Footsteps
     Chapter XXIII  Fire Rises
     Chapter XXII   The Sea Still Rises
     Chapter XXIV   Drawn to the Loadstone Rock
character."
character of evidence too often disfiguring such cases, and of which the
character that gives facilities for seeing much of it. They told me a
charged with murder! In the midst of these fluttering thoughts, the
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
charge. O the long, long night, with the moans of the poor wife! And O
charging an enemy, and the furious recklessness of the man brought no
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
charity--never thought of such a thing. He began to have suspicions of
"Charles."
Charles Darnay, alone in a cell, had sustained himself with no
Charles Darnay--as was natural--asked him, in all good-humour and
Charles Darnay felt it hopeless to entreat him further, and his pride
"Charles Darnay! I rejoice to see you. We have been counting on your
Charles Darnay--just released--congratulating him on his escape from
Charles Darnay roused himself, and gave the required information, in
Charles Darnay set at liberty, or at least to get him brought to trial,
Charles Darnay shook his head and doubtfully smiled, as the carriage
"Charles Evremonde, called Darnay!"
Charles Evremonde, called Darnay. Released yesterday. Reaccused and
Charles Evremonde, called Darnay, was accused by the public prosecutor
"Charles Evremonde, called Darnay," was at length arraigned.
    "Charles is safe, but I cannot safely leave this place yet.
Charles, it would have been another. Or, if it had been no other, I
Chateau and hut, stone face and dangling figure, the red stain on the
chateau as it was to be a very few years hence, and of fifty like it as
chateau is on fire; valuable objects may be saved from the flames by
chateau, nor the running up and down the stairs; nor the hurried
Checking his steps which had begun to tend towards an object, he took a
Checking the postmaster, who was for turning his horse's head to the
check into the face, or to the lips, of the master. The complaint had
cheek, and his other hand against the heart that beat for him!
cheeks, and his face, though lined, bore few traces of anxiety.
cheered her, and said at last, gently disengaging himself from her
cheerfulness and felicity with the dire endurance that was over.
cheerfulness out of them. Fathers and mothers who had had their full
cheerful, useful; but my poor history pervaded it all."
Chemists who had an eye on the transmutation of metals, at this
chestnuts in the turned cylinder; Hunger was shred into atomics in every
     Chief Executive and Director
chief functionary of the place, became uneasy; went out on his house-top
Chief of them unable to exist with fewer than two gold watches in his
child.
child, and not in opposition to 'em. If I had had any but a unnat'ral
child, by a bright fire. Mr. Lorry was expected back presently from the
child from whom I had been rent. Whether it was alive. Whether it had
child. I know, Doctor Manette--how can I fail to know--that, mingled
child must follow the husband and father."
"Children?"
children, from their aged and their sick crouching on the bare ground
children had ancient faces and grave voices; and upon them, and upon the
children, to whom in her trouble she had confided hers, seemed to take
child's tread came, and those of her own dear father's, always active
child who had to live after him, seemed to protest and to make it a
chimneys, and started up from the filthy street that had no offal,
chimneys at the darkening faces by the fountain below, and sent word to
chin, and his troubled eyes on Carton.
chocolate, caused the doors of the Holiest of Holiests to be thrown
"Choice! Listen to him!" cried the same scowling red-cap. "As if it was
Christian pastors, she entertained herself, besides, with such humane
church-tower, a windmill, a forest for the chase, and a crag with a
circled round Defarge's wine-shop, and every human drop in the caldron
circling hand in hand round a shrivelled tree of Liberty, or all drawn
circumstances. But it really is doubly and trebly hard to have crowds
circumstances. I knew what Court influence was, and what the immunities
circumstances into view, with the greatest discretion and with the
circumstances of his country, and those were of ever-growing interest.
circumstances that surrounded me."
citizen."
"Citizen Defarge," said he to Darnay's conductor, as he took a slip of
"Citizen Doctor," said the first, reluctantly, "he has been denounced to
"Citizen Doctor," said the first, with his former reluctance, "ask no
citizeness. The citizeness looking at him, he became embarrassed, evaded
citizeness who acted as porters at the courtyard gate, rendered them
"Citizen Evremonde," she said, touching him with her cold hand. "I am a
Citizen Evremonde. Such a poor weak little creature!"
citizen; he shaved the sixty-three to-day, in less than two pipes! Less
"Citizen, I desire nothing more than to get to Paris, though I could
citizen; it is a thing to regret."
"Citizen Manette, be tranquil. To fail in submission to the authority of
citizen-patriots, with their national muskets in a most explosive state
City streets had some waifs of goodness in them for the worst, of health
civil officers without a notion of affairs; brazen ecclesiastics, of the
claimed the forfeit of his life. That this correspondence with the
clapping of hands. Similarly, during two or three hours of drawl,
clash again, and all was quiet.
clasped her tight, and even lifted her from the floor in the struggle
clasping his, decided Mr. Cruncher. With an encouraging nod or two, he
"Clearly plots," said Jacques Three. "Transparently!"
clerks to Jerry the messenger.
climbed in at the door, and shut himself up to take his rest on its
clinging to his hand. Miss Pross had laid the child down on his own
clock, for so many years, and then set going again with an energy which
clock struck two, she was there, and at four she turned resignedly away.
close behind the last plough as it passes on, for all are following
closed and strongly guarded when they rode up to it.
closed door of the Doctor's room, where he was speaking with Charles
closed his shop, was smoking his pipe at his shop-door.
closed, so that the dark night only showed in slight horizontal lines of
close inspection, for the purpose--and with a pieman, also attended
closer and closer to the end, I travel in the circle, nearer and
closer in his ear, and frowned heavily.
closer to him. The craving man on the jury rubbed his hands together,
close to him when he was got near his destination, and began to
close to the left here," pointing with his hand, "near to the window of
clung to her with more than the hold of a drowning woman.
Cly were even a hundred times better than he had thought them, and the
coach.
coach across the road, with the mutinous intent of taking it back
coach. Her father and their old friend got into it, and he took his seat
coach; they were mysteries to one another, as complete as if each had
coach-windows, and the coach-lamp dimly gleaming through them, and the
coarse and galling, for old reasons. Upon those, had followed Gabelle's
coarse contrasted with sorrowing mothers and blooming daughters who were
cockades, armed with national muskets and sabres, who rode one on either
coincidence; most coincidences were curious. Neither did he call it a
cold, as he thus tried to anatomise his old condition.
collected his face into a sterner expression.
collectedly, though in the same low voice, "engaged in that pursuit
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
collect my thoughts. An errand of generosity brought him here unknown to
colours. I have lost no time, and since then, I have seen the spy. He
colour sometimes, and they would be occasionally dilated and contracted
combination, had read that article of war which forbade a purpose
combined with the joy-ringing, for music; not to mention his having an
come and gone twice, and was again sitting by her, when she began to
come, and Monseigneur was by this time scattered far and wide.
come and take your place in the circle, and let us sit quiet, and hear
come back.
"Come, come, Mr. Barsad!" exclaimed Sydney. "Don't be ungrateful.
"Come, come!" said he, in a whimpering miserable way; "let me get to
come, fast, fierce, and furious!"
Come! Give me your authority, like a dear good man. For his daughter's
come had almost destroyed their sense of hearing.
come here looking after her," said Miss Pross.
come in aid of it, and bind her closer to you, if such a thing can be."
"Come on at a footpace! d'ye mind me? And if you've got holsters to that
"Come!" rejoined Stryver, laughing boastfully, "though I don't prefer
comes!"
"Come!" said Defarge. "Here is monsieur, who knows a well-made shoe when
"Come!" said Mr. Cruncher. "Speak out, you know." (Which, by the way,
"Come!" said the chief, at length taking up his keys, "come with me,
"Come, then!" cried Defarge, in a resounding voice. "Patriots and
"Come, then, my children," said Barsad. "Lift him, and come away!"
"Come, then! You shall see the apartment that I told you you could
coming. Before this rumour, the crowd gradually melted away, and perhaps
coming. I tell thee it never retreats, and never stops. I tell thee it
coming near home.
coming on.
coming over the hill six soldiers. In the midst of them is a tall man
coming, some going, some breaking off, some stopping altogether; all in
coming to me and taking me out to show me that the home of her married
"Coming up the hill, and at the top of the hill, both?"
commencement."
commences the new philosophy! You are fatigued. Good night!"
"Commence," was Monsieur Defarge's not unreasonable reply, "at the
commissioned for our quarter. There may be many more, for all that he
commission, I shall, perhaps, accept Tellson's proposal to retire and
committed the assault, but it was not true. Swear it was not true?
Committee. Look over your hand, Mr. Barsad, and see what you have. Don't
committees, now turnkey, now prisoner, always spy and secret informer,
common, afterwards supping at their doors.
common rooms and corridors would be delivered over to the great dogs
communicated being put open that the air might pass freely through them
communicated itself to the prisoner's servant, and had engendered in him
communicated some reassurance to Mr. Jarvis Lorry.
communications yet received through any of the chickens of the Cock-lane
communication with the world outside?"
companion."
companion, in a life of quiet bliss, Lucie sat in the still house in
companionship was in every separate instance, Mr. Cruncher never failed
company--at the office of Tellson's Bank, for instance?"
company just before. It opened from a stinking little black courtyard,
Company was flourishing, a matter of fifty, not to speak of fifteen
(comparatively) to so few! It used not to be so, but France in all such
compassion and lamenting of his dead mother, on this injured family, if
completed for some days, to return to England. Early to-morrow have your
completed, when I was told that a lady waited, who wished to see me.
complete success, he says there's no reason at all! Says it with his
Completing his resemblance to a man who was sitting for his portrait,
complexion dark; generally, rather handsome visage; eyes dark, face
composed he has become, and you cannot be afraid to leave him with me
composedly, that they had not displaced a leaf of the herbs with which
compose her figure and the dress she had torn. It was then that I knew
composure. "Do you play?"
comprehend how much my mind has gone on this; but, only ask yourself,
compressed lips, white with what they suppressed; nor foreheads knitted
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
compromised by possessing the knowledge that I possessed.
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
conceal themselves. As they stood side by side near the carriage door,
conception of the difficulty with which our business is transacted, and
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
concert, for that evening. They crowded to the grates and shed tears
Conciergerie?"
Conciergerie, and Death within four-and-twenty hours!
Conciergerie; I have timely information. You are not afraid?"
conclusion.
conclusion after a protracted but vain endeavour to find a better one.
concourse made at him anew, weeping, embracing, and shouting, all by
concussion of air on his passage through, that to stand up against it
condemning all to death who return. That is what he meant when he said
condescension and patronage than he could have shown if their relative
condition. But, the time was not come yet; and every wind that blew over
condition, indeed, as to the business and his domestic affairs, he
condition on which I ask it, and which you have an undoubted right to
condition. Relieved as his mind reverted to that, he answered:
conditions more certain than those that have produced this horror. Crush
conducted the young lady straightway to her chair again, and, holding
conducted to this chamber straight, the cries growing louder as we
conduct the happy chocolate to Monseigneur's lips. One lacquey carried
conference.
conference. A struggle was evidently in his face; a struggle with that
conference, but abided at a little distance, like an outer satellite who
confide in me. Observe! Under those circumstances even, I do not
confidence. He professed himself more relieved and encouraged than he
confidence? I know this is a confidence," she modestly said, after a
confidence of a man who had slowly won his assurance out of personal
confidence of his manner, as he put the weapons aside like water,
confidence, or quite so easy a smile under the stare.
confident, having seen it; and more. The upshot of which, was, to smash
confirmable by the prisoner in the Abbaye, that were not yet made.
confirmation.
confirmed. "It is best," he said, finally resolved, "that these people
confirms me. He knows that a wood-sawyer, living by the prison wall,
confiscation and destruction, and their very names were blotting out,
confronted with his own on the edge of the grave that had been dug for
Confused by the emotion of the day, and feeling his being there with
congratulated: for the two others had been set down at their respective
conjunction with Miss Pross, he took immediate steps towards the latter
conscience.
conscience regarded the crumbling fabric that he was supposed to uphold,
conscious this day and hour, in spite of his happiness, that he would
consequence, country airs circulated in Soho with vigorous freedom,
consequences of mixing them?"
consequence so numerous, that Tellson's sometimes wrote the latest news
consequence, that nothing that ever was, was wrong.
consequently slow, they drive him with their guns--like this!"
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
considerable knocking on the head, and returned to his own occupations.
consider. After trying it, Stryver, C. J., was satisfied that no plainer
considerate and most affectionate way, "I am a mere man of business,
consideration for others who were near and dear to him, forbade him,
consideration not easy to be understood in these days, the carriage
consideration, surrounded by the advantages of solitude, might influence
considered a discreditable station--though it must be filled by
considered essential to the dignity of the position. The position
considered what I ought to do. I decided, that day, to write privately
considering what to do, he almost hid his face from the passersby.
consider it.
consolatory to her. Otherwise, she might think 'his life was wantonly
consolidation and perpetuation of the secret that was always in that
Conspicuous among these latter, like an animated bit of the spiked wall
constituted to be that profound secret and mystery to every other. A
containing himself, that great means of regeneration.
contemplating the wine-shop and the street. In both, there were several
contemptuous eyes passed over her, and over all the other rats; and he
contended with himself that it was impossible to foresee what that lady
CONTENTS
contest with that eccentric action of thought which had last perplexed
contraband trade in European languages, instead of conveying Greek
contradicted his light manner, but changed and raised the man. She was
contrivances, half English and half French, that nothing could be
convenient places of business. Tellson's (they said) wanted
conversation also, and led the unfortunate woman a hard life by dwelling
conversation, and the rumour openly going about among your admirers, the
conversation by so much as a passing word. I will never refer to it
conversation. I suspect that I am watched more closely than I was, and I
conversations, that argued well for his shouldering his way up in life.
conversation that she might be prevented from meditating any petitions
conversation we had. My opinion is confirmed, and I reiterate my
conversation with Miss Pross, and remembering what he had seen in the
coolly. "Pray sit down."
copied or distributed:
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
coquetry, "I'll use it!"
corner, and identified me with a single gesture. The Marquis took from
corner, and rose to depart. In going, he had to face Miss Pross. No
corner caught my sight.
corner, with sufficient haste and trepidation to show that she was the
correctness.
correct. Such frizzling and powdering and sticking up of hair, such
corresponding and sufficient cause, how came he, Jarvis Lorry, there?
corridor and staircase, many doors clanging and locking behind them,
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
cottages, not steeped in darkness, but all glittering with lights, and
cough, and raised her eyebrows by the breadth of another line.
coughed just one grain of cough. This, in combination with the lifting
could bear no more, they dropped off one by one, and lights twinkled
could be taken away--"
could break the prison door of his daughter's husband, and deliver him.
could draw across her at the full, and the number of perpendicular lines
could easily get near him.
could find food--he sobbed twelve times, once for every stroke of the
could get from a shower of hail.
could have done what he has done for me."
could have heard her innocent disclosure, and could have seen the drops
could have heard the answering cry.
could lay hold of nothing else, set themselves with bleeding hands to
could make. Finally, he walked across the room with a measured tread to
could not bear to have her sight obscured for a minute at a time by the
could not fail to know that he was better than they, was not there,
couldn't be in better hands."
"couldn't you tell her what you had to tell her, without frightening her
could retain no place in it against her love for her father."
could she be! The brother distrusted and disliked her, and his influence
counsel directed every step that lay before him, and had prepared every
counsel), whether they were next to try Mr. Carton (name of my learned
countenances which had been glaring at the prisoner a moment before, as
counter, he laid the scrap of paper before him. "Whew!" the chemist
countermined and religiously circumwented into the worst of luck.
counters, where the oldest of men made your cheque shake as if the
counting, and evidently made him uneasy. In all other respects, however,
counting dropping heads.
counting its measurement, and the roar of the city arose like muffled
counting up to twelve, and 'Hush!' The frenzy was so violent, that I had
count of time there was none. Hold of it was lost in the raging fever
countryman's story; the manner of all of them, while it was secret, was
countryman, "that he is brought down into our country to be executed on
"Courage, dear miss! Courage! Business! The worst will be over in a
"Courage, my dear Lucie," said Mr. Lorry, as he raised her. "Courage,
courage! So far all goes well with us--much, much better than it has of
courier was audible, trotting on ahead into the dull distance.
course done, lying side by side in their last earthly bed, and I know
course of time got himself shut up in his sanctuary by the chocolate
court.
court."
court. After some gruff coughing and rubbing of his chin and signing
Court drawing-rooms; musketeers went into St. Giles's, to search
Court--except two, for which he looked in vain. On his coming out, the
court, followed out into the streets. He was in no uneasiness concerning
Court; let him see them on Sunday."
courtyard of the house where the afflicted heart--so happy in
courtyard, out of the courtyard up a steep staircase, out of the
courtyard. There, they found two women; one, knitting.
covered up their tracks with a determination so strong, that he held the
cowardice; "I too, my dear, will stop at nothing."
crag was not so dominant as of yore; there were soldiers to guard it,
Cramped in all kinds of dim cupboards and hutches at Tellson's, the
craned forward that all the eyes might look down at it as it fell. The
crashing engine that constantly whirrs up and falls, and she looks into
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
Creator of day! To be buried alive for eighteen years!"
creature he had since cared for and parted with, had died on the
creatures--the creatures of this chronicle among the rest--along the
credit. So I have made up my mind. And now, Sydney, old boy, I want to
creep far, before they stopped and stood upright. And then they began to
cries of--"Live the Bastille prisoner! Help for the Bastille prisoner's
crime.
crimes from the knitted register of Madame Defarge."
criminals got there, and those were always left wide open.
crimsoned. The carol of the birds was loud and high, and, on the
crisis?"
crisply-curling short dark hair. He was a dark man altogether, with good
croaked over their scanty measures of thin wine and beer, and were
crossed his legs.
Crouching down in a corner, peeping up the lane, the next object that
crowd about it, in which there seemed to be every face he had seen in
crowd in those times stopped at nothing, and was a monster much dreaded.
crowd to be carried as the Goddess of Liberty, and then swelling and
crowd to take a hurried peep at Monsieur the Marquis petrified, a
cruelly, craftily, and closely compressed, while he stood looking
crumpled horn in the house that Jack built.
Cruncher, let us think!"
Cruncher must have been "flopping" in some pointed manner, when an
Cruncher was as well known to Fleet-street and the Temple, as the Bar
Cruncher was out of spirits, and out of temper, and kept an iron pot-lid
cry; "but give me my work! What is to become of us, if those shoes are
cry, trooping women variously armed, but all armed alike in hunger and
culpability of hers. As if Mr. Lorry had not known it for a fact, years
Cupid, but he was still to be seen on the ceiling, in the coolest
curator or authorised exponent, to this cart and to this, and seems to
curious coincidence that true patriotism was _his_ only motive too. He
curious contagion of whispering was upon it, and also, when it gathered
curiously roughened forehead was very intent upon him--"that when I was
curious thing when I was there."
curious to see," thought Mr. Lorry, in his amiably shrewd way, "but all
current of the time swept by, so strong and deep, and carried the time
customers ceased talking, and began gradually to drop out of the
Customers entered, and the group was broken up. The English customer
customer to you, if you don't. _I_'m your Rome, you know."
custom of hard driving endangered and maimed the mere vulgar in a
custom was. He did it with some flourish of ceremony, for a mail journey
dagger. Thus accoutred, and walking with the confident tread of such
daily brought into light from the dark cellars of the loathsome prisons,
dainty cushions.
DAMAGE.
danger, changed into wild beasts, by terrible enchantment long persisted
"Dare I ask you to explain?"
dare say, to know that I had it."
darkened by this deed of horror; and that the air around her had been
darker when Lucie came home; she hurried into the room alone--for
dark eyebrows and his confused white hair, though they had been really
dark hair looked rich under her coarse red cap. Lying hidden in her
dark hair upon your head, if you lay a finger on me!"
darkness, and through the dust, and down the weary miles of avenue by
Darkness closed around, and then came the ringing of church bells and
Darkness had fallen on him in its place. He looked at the two, less and
darkness of the night, and swallow him--like this!"
darkness, that I must abridge this narrative. There is no confusion or
darkness was closing in as surely, when the church bells, then ringing
dark obscurity of one of Mr. Lorry's pockets. They returned home to
dark room, speaking so low that not a sound was heard, Mr. Lorry looked
dark room, watching and waiting for Lightning, always do.
dark, very ugly, very incommodious. It was an old-fashioned place,
dark, was gathered in a ribbon at the back of his neck; more to be out
darling, and the heavy disappointment of his second arrest, gradually
Darnay?"
Darnay.
Darnay: an intent look, deepening into a frown of dislike and distrust,
Darnay as a young gentleman of generosity knows how to make allowance
Darnay began to perceive that for him along these country roads there
Darnay complied, and was taken back to the guard-house, where other
Darnay has had a terrible day, we are worn out."
Darnay hesitated.
Darnay. He was so deadly pale--which had not been the case when they
Darnay. It was an infamous prosecution, grossly infamous; but not the
Darnay made the best of his way into the quiet of the Temple, opened the
Darnay observed that the gate was held by a mixed guard of soldiers and
Darnay, rather hesitating, "I must still suggest to you--"
Darnay's ears long after he had ceased. He motioned with the hand he had
Darnay. Shall we ever see such a night again, together!"
Darnay stood leaning on it, talking with him in a low voice. The
Darnay. They were ready to go to church; the beautiful bride, Mr.
Darnay, unable to restrain himself any longer, touched Mr. Stryver on
Darnay was established in England as a higher teacher of the French
dashed through streets and swept round corners, with women screaming
date, as he made his formal bow again, and took his seat.
date--he knew that he had crossed the Channel, and accepted service in
daughter, and only child."
daughter, and those dear to her, are far dearer to me than my life. Who
daughter, bereft of her final hope and reliance, appealed to them both
daughter from the ground. He had gradually dropped to the floor, and lay
daughter's voice, and invariably turned to it when she spoke.
daughter was six years old. How near to her heart the echoes of her
day!"
day.
day, and he knew Lucie to be out with Miss Pross.
daybreak and before sunrise, by the presence of his father in the
day he went away to join Lucie and her husband. The precaution that
Daylight at last found them before the wall of Paris. The barrier was
days--became impatient for an interview with him, and, surrounding his
days of the merry Stuart who sold it.
day. Something especially reckless in his demeanour, not only gave him
days upon his journey in France alone, when he went to bed tired out, in
days when you sat at your mother's knee, seem days of very long ago?"
day to give up its dead. Some passing thought of the infamy and disgrace
Day were come, and those who rejoiced around them were lost spirits.
"Dead as mutton," returned the other, "and can't be too dead. Have 'em
dead at the bottom. Their decease made no impression on the other flies
dead darkness added its own hush to the hushing dust on all the roads.
dead. He came in and first tossed me some pieces of money; then struck
dead--I might have thought that He had not quite abandoned them. But,
dead, it had lopped the heads off, in one morning, in as many minutes.
dead man."
dead." Stopping then, to look down at the mattress, he turned from it
dear child, he adjured her, as they would meet in Heaven, to comfort her
"Dear Doctor Manette, always knowing this, always seeing her and you
"Dear Doctor, will you go out?"
"Dearest dear! Can you tell me, this last time, that you feel quite,
     "DEAREST,--Take courage.  I am well, and your father has
"Dear me!" said Mr. Lorry, as the safest remark he could think of.
dear, nor you!" He got his arm round her, and held her. "Don't be so
dear to me is in this dreadful town to-night. May He have mercy on all
death.
Death.
"Death has done that!" said the Marquis.
Death is Nature's remedy for all things, and why not Legislation's?
Death. Not that it did the least good in the way of prevention--it
Death's dominion.
Death; the coiner of a bad shilling was put to Death; the sounders of
debating of the point, he came to the conclusion that it would be as
deceive them too much."
"Decidedly. May one ask what it is for?"
Decidedly not; once received a kick on the top of a staircase, and fell
decidedly opposed to a rose on the head-dress of Madame Defarge. Two
decidedly trimming and shaping them into grave-clothes for the prisoner.
deck near the cabin steps, and I sat on the deck at his side to take
declaiming to Mrs. Stryver, over his full-bodied wine, on the arts
declaring themselves satisfied that the accusation against him was
decorated with little pikes, and with little red caps stuck upon them;
decoration, there was but one quite steady figure, and that was a
decoration was gone, or Saint Antoine was on the watch for its
decree bore date since his return to France. There he was, and there was
(deducting a mere trifle for this slight mistake) was quite a serious
deeds, it is questionable whether of their own wills they will go far
deep.
deep distrust, "I know that your diplomacy would stop me by any means,
Deep ditches, double drawbridge, massive stone walls, eight great
Deep ditch, single drawbridge, massive stone walls, eight great towers,
deepened and deepened, and they both lay quiet, until a light gleamed
deepened as he dwelt upon it; but, there was nothing to shock her in
deepened itself as she took her seat thoughtfully in the chair by which
deeper shade than the pendent lamp could throw, or any object in the
Defarge!"
Defarge.
Defarge, and had broken down with them signally. He always remembered
Defarge and the three glanced darkly at one another. The looks of all
Defarge. As early as six o'clock in the morning, sallow faces peeping
Defarge brought him the wine, and gave him Good Evening.
Defarge: but, a smouldering fire that burnt in the dark, lay hidden in
Defarge; but, neither of the two took much heed of her.
Defarge came in breathless, pulled off a red cap he wore, and looked
Defarge closed the door carefully, and spoke in a subdued voice:
Defarge confer with these ministers, but in the shed of the wood-sawyer,
Defarge drew out the key, closed the door, locked it on the inside,
Defarge gave into his anxious hand, an open scrap of paper. It bore the
Defarge glanced darkly at him for answer, and walked on in a steady
Defarge got upon the box, and gave the word "To the Barrier!" The
Defarge had described himself, that day, as the keeper of a wine-shop in
Defarge had not moved from the spot where she stood when Miss Pross
Defarge. I know it from her own lips. I have overheard words of that
Defarge immediately called to her husband that she would get them, and
Defarge knew enough of its antecedents to know better. She said,
Defarge. "Leave us, good boys; we have business here."
Defarge looked gloomily at his wife, and gave no other answer than a
Defarge motioned with the paper to the prisoner that he must accompany
Defarge moved on from group to group, all three went quicker and fiercer
Defarge. "Quick!"
Defarge raised his head thoughtfully, as if there were something in that
Defarge, rather pleading with his wife to induce her to admit it,
Defarge refreshed himself with a draught of wine--but, he took less
Defarge sat at her counter, as usual, presiding over the customers.
Defarge's little counter, and occasionally sipping his cognac.
Defarges, man and wife. The Vengeance assisted in the conversation, like
Defarge so little comprehended as to mistake for weakness. "Ha, ha!" she
Defarge stood, panting, against a background of eager eyes and open
Defarge, "that many of these miserable beasts know the taste of wine, or
Defarge took his receipt without noticing the exclamation, and withdrew,
Defarge to the turnkey.
Defarge was drawing very near indeed.
Defarge was produced, when the court was quiet enough to admit of his
Defarge went back to the counter, and said, "Certainly, a little like."
Defarge were studying his wife at her knitting when the elderly
Defarge, who had been uneasily biting his thumb-nail and looking at her,
Defarge, with a lowering smile. "Influence; he says something touching
Defarge with her work in her hand was accustomed to pass from place
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
deference on it but the dark deference of fear and slavery."
deference than he made an outward show of, "You are a lean old one,
defiance, stubbornness, submission, lamentation, succeeded one another;
deficient in originality) rapped out theirs. Mere messages in the
defined against a watery and clouded moon, nimbly scaling an iron gate.
dejected, oppressed, and broken. Habitations, fences, domesticated
delay."
delicacy into Devonshire, and when the sight and scent of flowers in the
delicacy of feeling in that kind of way, Sydney, I might have been a
delicacy of pity for him. What fine hidden sensibilities are touched in
delicacy which, if such things be old-fashioned, were as old as Adam.
delicate, and difficult to penetrate. My daughter Lucie is, in this one
delicate and gradual approaches which Mr. Lorry felt to be the only safe
delicate complexions artificially preserved and mended, such gallant
delicate foot mincing in this slough of blood and dirt, were types of
delicate hands, clear eyes, and good sense; were at once so pleasant in
delight us all. She has gone out on some household matters, but will
delivered his note--little thinking what it had been doing near him in
delivered in no very soothing tone.
delivered to the concourse whose murderous yells outside the gate had
deliver it?"
demand no more than the opportunity to do so without delay. Is not that
demonstrations ceased, as suddenly as they had broken out. The man who
Denounced enemy of the Republic, Aristocrat, one of a family of tyrants,
departed from her embrace that had been entrusted to it. Suffer them and
departed in it.
depended on thee--which, happily, it does not--thou wouldst rescue this
depends upon it than she dare believe, or hope. You think that her
depend upon it, I'll hold my own against them."
deplore and pity."
deposited on a substratum of cutlass.
depth, and overflowed the city to that point. Alarm-bells ringing, drums
derived a kind of security from the patriotic occupation of the main
descended to the Common Executioner: who, in pursuance of the charm, was
descends to me!' Ask him, is that so."
description. If you have, don't expect me to befriend you when you
description of himself as "a honest tradesman." His stock consisted of
description they had passed, and, though red with patriotic caps, was
deserted. Above a heap of dust and ashes in the court, ran the letters:
desk: whereupon, although it was a large double one, there appeared to
despair.'
despair, it would but have been with her as it was with many. But, from
despondency or dangerous retrospect towards which he foresaw he might be
destination. The illuminated village had seized hold of the tocsin, and,
destitute of military knowledge; naval officers with no idea of a ship;
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
destroy life in you?" Every lean bare arm, that had been without work
destruction. It thundered at the town, and thundered at the cliffs, and
detail; but, she so far understood them as to perceive that she was set
details being spared--by just so much would he have lost in his
detain you no longer."
determination, of that kind of beauty which not only seems to impart
developed themselves when he left England, he of course knew now. That
Devil, and was put together again when the occasion wanted it. It hushed
devil of a honest tradesman met with! Young Jerry, dress yourself, my
dexterously combated by stirring the fire continuously for five minutes,
diamond-cut-diamond arts in himself, madam, which had rendered him "not
dice? Something to that effect was said by the intoxicated liar who
dictated again. "'I am thankful that the time has come, when I can prove
"Did he run away, fellow?--where is that Accursed?"
"Did he say anything about America, Miss Manette? Be particular."
did it and made the best of it. In this, his prosperity consisted.
did not come back. Mr. Lorry returned, and found no tidings of him, and
didn't get much good of, you were always somewhere, and I was always
"Didn't you? Who brought her father to life?"
"Did the man run away, Dolt, when we stopped for the drag?"
"Did they alight on the road in the course of the night?"
"Did you ask me for my name?"
"Did you ever see a counterfeit of timidity, Mr. Lorry?"
"Did you ever see anybody very like the prisoner?"
"Did you hear the message?"
died out of me. Since I knew you, I have been troubled by a remorse that
die out," said Monsieur the Marquis, glancing at his hands, "directly."
different man from the prisoner, who had walked to and fro at La Force,
difficult nature, which might get people into trouble, and that he was
difficult to find. That's a card not to be beaten. Have you followed my
difficulty in scrapings of soot and charcoal from the chimney, mixed
Dig--dig--dig--until an impatient movement from one of the two
digging, digging, in the live red coals.
diminishing the league or two of distance that remained between him and
dimmed. For, there was something coming in the echoes, something light,
dining-table in it and never had a dinner, and where, even in the year
Dinner-time, and still no Hundreds of people. In the arrangements of
dipped in it, as sick people went down to be dipped in the sea. A little
directed by his will, obtruded themselves over and over again, countless
direction; consequently she knew no more of that "nonsense" (as she was
direction. He may have observed himself, and made the discovery."
direction. I walked into the wine-shop here, close after you, and
directions; others devoted themselves to the sodden and lee-dyed
dirty with murder and some clean, some sober and some not--for his life
disagreeable companion had, of his own free will, assisted him in the
disappearance; howbeit, the Saint took courage to lounge in, very
disappearance of the high caste, chiselled, and otherwise beautified and
discharge my poor mother's trust that first brought my fatal presence
discourse, "is wot I would respectfully offer to you, sir. A man don't
discoursing with spirits went on--and it did a world of good which never
discovered every kind of remedy for the little evils with which the
discovered there, and which had been described to all the world. He
discovered, what if she were stopped at the gate, sent to prison, and
discovery; but the man went on. A very few moments after that, a young
discovery, of money, or of any other property; but--"
discreet--as he was then, so he is now."
discuss with himself. But, that circumstance too, had had its influence
disease--a terrible passing inclination to die of it. And all of us have
disfiguring hand; but, there was not one among them more to be dreaded
disgrace, the new-comer recoiled from this company. But the crowning
disgrace you, pull you down with him. I know very well that you can have
disinterestedly, devotedly. If ever there were love in the world, I love
dismal house by the wine-shop, in the suburb of Saint Antoine in Paris.
dismissed him to bed. Then she turned out the contents of the bowl
disorder?"
disorder, and she called it, in familiar conversation, "a fit of the
disorder and surprise, and looked at Darnay with a close attention.
disorganised city there would be no occasion to send somebody from our
disorganised country, a city that may not be even safe for you."
dispense with one of these attendants on the chocolate and hold his high
dispense with the escort."
displacements of the raging sea, made by the falling wounded. Flashing
displeasure of the Republic, and must look out at the little window.
disposed of, they would probably have excluded what little light the
disposed of until the clocks struck three in the morning.
disposition to give up, and wither away.
distance, at the prison on the crag; and in the evening, when the work
distance. He referred to them, as if she were lying in our presence.
distance of time, was a partner of mine) has been dead several years. I
distant chateau for fire and candle, and the beating at his door,
distant? Rather. Ever been in prison? Certainly not. Never in a debtors'
distressing nature were vividly recalled, I think. It is probable that
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.
disturbed by a coin flying into his carriage, and ringing on its floor.
disturbing his outward attention from the Jacobin editor, they resumed
diverging, all peopled by rags and nightcaps, and all smelling of rags
dividing the business that was necessary to be done, and hurrying away
"D--n it all, sir!" said Stryver, staring at him, "am I not eligible?"
"D--n _me_!" cried Stryver, "but this beats everything."
do?"
dock at my Lord Chief Justice himself, and pulled him off the bench. It
Doctor.
"'Doctor, finding my brother in this difficulty with these hinds, I
Doctor, had then so strongly pleaded for permission to remain and
Doctor looked troubled, and listened attentively. He had already glanced
"Doctor Manette at home?"
Doctor Manette did not return until the morning of the fourth day of his
"'Doctor Manette, formerly of Beauvais,' said the other; 'the young
"Doctor Manette, I knew she was from home. I took the opportunity of her
Doctor Manette in this idea, because I felt that it might one day be
"Doctor Manette, look upon the prisoner. Have you ever seen him before?"
Doctor Manette, Lucie Manette, his daughter, Mr. Lorry, the solicitor
Doctor Manette may stand him in as good stead to-morrow--you said he
"Doctor Manette. My dear friend, Doctor Manette!"
Doctor Manette, once a prisoner in the Bastille that is no more?"
Doctor Manette pressed his hand, hastened bareheaded out of the room,
Doctor Manette received him kindly, and so did Lucie. But, Miss Pross
Doctor Manette received such patients here as his old reputation, and
Doctor Manette," said Darnay, modestly but firmly, "I would not ask that
"Doctor Manette," said Mr. Lorry, touching him affectionately on the
Doctor Manette sat meditating after these earnest words were spoken, and
Doctor Manette took what was given him to eat and drink, and worked on,
Doctor Manette was next questioned. His high personal popularity,
Doctor Manette was very cheerful at the little supper. They were only
Doctor Manette, whom this visitation had so turned into stone, that he
Doctor's bedroom, and there, in a corner, stood the disused shoemaker's
Doctor's bedroom door in the early morning?
Doctor's household pointed to that time as a likely time for solving
Doctor's room and looking in, he perceived that the shoemaker's bench
Doctor's room. The bench was turned towards the light, as it had been
Doctor, the Lawyer, the Ecclesiastic, the Grand Opera, the Comedy, the
Doctor." Then she raised her voice and called out, "Citizen Doctor! Wife
"'Doctor, they are very proud, these Nobles; but we common dogs are
Doctor were left together, Mr. Lorry said, feelingly:
"_Do_ dozens come for that purpose?"
"Does everybody here recall old Foulon, who told the famished people
"Does he resemble either of these two passengers?"
"Does it mean a captive, or a place of captivity? Or do you mean that I
"Does Madame go with us?" inquired Mr. Lorry, seeing that she moved as
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
do exactly as I bid you; for more depends upon it than you can think, or
do--go your ways as soon as possible, and let me go mine. I am busy. I
dogs have been taken out to be hanged; in the next room (my bedroom),
"Do I ask you, my dear Darnay, to pass the door? When I ask that,
"Do I date it?"
do I find you here!"
"Do I know her?"
"Do I say yes, mamma?" whispered little Lucie, drawing close to her.
do it, and that it had never been done.
dominoes, three standing by the counter lengthening out a short supply
done in the garret; for, with his back towards the door, and his face
done often. He never came there heated with wine. And one other thing
done so, whether he was not still asleep. For, going to the door of the
done--why, how old are you?"
done with it.
done with, they all moved to one of the windows, and looked out into the
do next, when he heard a foot upon the stair. In a few moments, a
done. Young women have committed similar follies often before, and have
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
"Don't be afraid to hear me. Don't shrink from anything I say. I am like
"Don't be alarmed, my dear Miss Pross. I arrived at Mr. Lorry's, to his
"Don't call me Solomon. Do you want to be the death of me?" asked the
"Don't despond," said Carton, very gently; "don't grieve. I encouraged
"Don't do it!" said Mr. Crunches looking about, as if he rather expected
"Don't fear me. I will be true to the death."
don't know that I cared what became of you, when I rendered it.--Mind! I
"Don't look!" cried Mr. Lorry, absolutely desperate. "No, Lucie, my
"Don't look!" cried Mr. Lorry. "Don't look out! Manette, for your life,
"Don't prevaricate," said Mr. Lorry.
"Don't recall her to herself," he said, softly, to the latter, "she is
"Don't say that, Miss Manette, for you would have reclaimed me, if
"Don't torture a poor forlorn wretch," he implored them, with a dreadful
don't touch the blind!"
Don't you see she will fall!"
doomed to destruction and extermination. Ask my husband, is that so."
door?"
door and alight before I came up with it.
door at parting.
door, burnt as if they were in a close room of state, instead of being
door-keeper this note for Mr. Lorry. He will then let you in."
door, replying to a group of officials. They leisurely walk round the
doors, the one mourner scuffled out of himself and was in their hands
door stood ajar all night.
doors were well guarded--except, indeed, the social doors by which the
door was fast closed, and the other was opened but a very little way.
doorways, leaves sparkled and rustled at iron-grated windows, dogs
"Do so, implicitly. Your suspense is nearly ended, my darling; he shall
(double-laden though the horse was), at a gallop, like a new version of
doubt had their part in it. Its deplorable peculiarity was, that it was
doubt if I should abuse the permission. It is a hundred to one if I
doubts, of her remaining upon earth, to enjoy that new delight--divided
Dover by the mail?"
do well, in the mean time, to show myself? I think so. It is best that
down.
down a narrow pass with a gulf on either side, for nothing would turn
down, and he was very busy.
down and perverted, that Lucie Manette wept mournfully for him as he
Down, and up, and head foremost on the steps of the building; now, on
down at her with perfect composure. "It is the daughter of your father
down dead.
Down, Evremonde!"
down in the court, stopped the dialogue. Presently, the dock became the
down in the mud and wet, howling over it like a wild animal.
down into her face while she sat looking up into his.
down just within the door, and held her, clinging to him.
downstairs again, and stole into his room; not free from unshaped fears,
downstairs of his own accord. Kicked on that occasion for cheating at
down the hill, knee-high in dust, and never stopped till he got to the
down too, and fell asleep again.
down upon him with the loftiest contempt.
do yet. Speak for yourself."
"_Do_ you?"
"Do _you_ ask, Citizen Doctor?"
"Do you ask me for my advice, Mr. Stryver?"
"Do you believe that he thinks of it much?"
"Do you, by Jupiter?" said Stryver. "I am sorry for it."
"'Do you doubt them?' asked the younger brother.
do, you do. You were always in the front rank, and I was always behind."
"Do you feel, yet, that you belong to this terrestrial scheme again, Mr.
"'Do you honour me with your attention, Doctor?'
"Do you imagine--" Mr. Lorry had begun, when Miss Pross took him up
"Do you know me?"
"Do you know, Sydney," said Mr. Stryver, looking at him with sharp eyes,
"Do you make a show of Monsieur Manette?"
"Do you mean that you won't say, sir?" the spy irresolutely asked.
"Do you mean the prisoner?" inquired the Judge, knitting his brows.
"Do you mean to finish that pair of shoes to-day?"
"Do you often go to see him--"
"Do you particularly like the man?" he muttered, at his own image; "why
"Do you seek any guidance from me?"
"Do you seek any promise from me?"
"Do you suppose," Mr. Lorry went on, with a laughing twinkle in his
"Do you think I particularly like you?"
"Do you think:" the uncomplaining eyes in which there is so much
dozing on the topmost stair, was advised to lay himself down on the
drank his punch and looked at his complacent friend.
drank it off. He saw that the spy was fearful of his drinking himself
drawbridges, seemed to the mender of roads, to be so much air as against
drawbridge, the massive stone walls, and the eight great towers. Slight
drawer, and two porters, and several maids and the landlady, were all
drawers, particles of which flew up your nose and down your throat when
draw his breath or turn his head was as impracticable as if he had been
Drawing his arm through his own, he took him down Ludgate-hill to
"Draw on these boots of mine. Put your hands to them; put your will to
dreaded to be asked any question by the young lady, turned himself about
dreadful.
dreadfully spare and thin.
dreadful thing to bring a child into the world, and that what we should
dread of madame by which he was constantly haunted, his life was very
dread of the scene, and in her pity for the prisoner. Her forehead had
dressed himself in the clothes the prisoner had laid aside, combed back
dressed in black, or very dark grey, and his hair, which was long and
dress (hastily composed with unsteady hands) was clutched and dragged a
dressing a doll at her mother's footstool, chattered in the tongues of
dress, such as it was--quite deliberately, as having dirtied the hand on
Dress was the one unfailing talisman and charm used for keeping all
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
drier parts of the legal race.
drinking brandy in its state apartments.
drinking, standing or seated, sprinkled about. The day was very hot,
drinking-table, while the jackal sat at his own paper-bestrewn table
drinking vessel and smacked his lips.
drink, my wife!"
drink to the Republic."
dripping water, but constantly paused and looked round to see that there
"Drive him fast to his tomb. This, from Jacques."
driving and riving and shouldering and passing, to that restless degree
drooped before him, as the like of himself had drooped before
drooped merely to suffer and not to propitiate--when a grizzled mender
drooping eyelids and half-seen eyes awaited the Last Day. Impassive
drooping heads, are sunk in silent despair; again, there are some so
"Drop it then," said Mr. Cruncher; "I won't have none of _your_ no
dropped his daughter's hand and clasped his head again.
dropped into a comfortable attitude, and stood surveying the guest while
dropped into a passionate swoon, and were only saved by the men
dropped out of Tellson's ledgers, to turn cooks and carpenters. As a
dropped the brandy slowly down on Mr. Lorry's hearth like a man who had
drops, and he showed the back of his hand with rain-drops on it. But, he
drops of oil.
drove away. Not many people had talked with him at the reception; he had
drove him. You know that it is among their Rights to keep us in their
drums with a wild swell of voices added to them. "He made shoes, he made
drunk and sober, and in various neutral states between sleeping and
drunk by horror, that he sings, and tries to dance. Not one of the whole
dry; the extinguisher tops of the towers vanished like ice before the
"Dull?" Miss Pross inquired, with placidity.
dull sky overcast, the river dark and dim, the whole scene like a
during a whole year.
during the journey, under that worthy gentleman's protection. The
dust from his feet, and quietly walked downstairs.
dust, not often troubling himself to reflect that dust he was and
duty. Heaven be with you!"
dye-works, tanneries, and the like, open country, avenues of leafless
dying boy.
Each spoke in her own language; neither understood the other's words;
early days in which you were lost to her. I know perfectly well that if
early drinking at the wine-shop of Monsieur Defarge. It had begun
"Early in the morning, the rouleau of gold was left at my door in a
earnest at this dreadful time. Now, pray let us think! My esteemed Mr.
earnest wishes for them poor creeturs now! Forbid it as we shouldn't all
earrings. Her knitting was before her, but she had laid it down to pick
ears, and knocking the back of her head against the head-board of the
ears, and wore jack-boots. Not one of the three could have said, from
ears for anything in their surprise. For, it must be recorded, that
ears, "It is very difficult to begin."
ears through the great bank of Tilson known at Paris!
earth beneath a stone, or tile, or some fragment of paving, were found
earthly doubt that he is retaken."
earthly order of events had lately come to the English Crown and People,
earthquake?"
earth upon it, and came to the surface. Young Jerry very well knew what
ease, and was equably cheerful. To him, now entered Charles Darnay, at
easily elevate himself to a gallows of the same height. I charge myself
easterly parish church of Hounsditch, he had received the added
easy.
ebbing out, as if he were a wounded bird, or hare, or rabbit; not at all
echoes, and they were not wholly of earth, but had in them that breath
echoes of years none but friendly and soothing sounds. Her husband's
edge of the bed, had drawn the end of the scarf into her mouth, and was
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
effect upon her husband. Do what he would, behind the little counter,
efforts, the dose that I desired to give. As I intended to repeat it
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
effort to prepare himself made him less able to bear it."
"Eh my faith. It is a portrait!" said madame, laughing. "He shall be
"Eh, well! Here you see me!" said madame, composed as ever, but not
"Eh well! How then?" demanded madame, tying another knot, as if there
"Eh well!" returned madame. "Almost."
"Eh well!" said Madame Defarge, raising her eyebrows with a cool
"Eighteen years!" said the passenger, looking at the sun. "Gracious
either?"
either case detained to be imprinted on the memory of the chief and his
either detected, or fancied it detected, on his face, as it turned
Either Saint Antoine had an instinctive sense that the objectionable
either side. Sometimes, we strike into the skirting mud, to avoid the
either suggestion, whispered to Madame Defarge that they were gone.
elbow as negligently as he might have stood at the Old Bailey itself.
elbows bound fast at his hips, with cords that were knotted behind him.
elbows, "that it is your deliberate opinion that the young lady at
elder brother, coming booted into the room from his horse.
elderly gentleman said in a look to the young lady, "This is our man."
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
electronic works
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
eligible, you are eligible."
else-deserted lodging in which they held their consultation.
elsewhere until all was well, or unless I could be useful; I present
embarrassing our heads concerning others. _I_ think for others? No, no."
embarrassment as he seated himself near her table. But, looking up at
embellishment. Noakes and Co.'s might, or Snooks Brothers' might; but
embers, and shed tears. As if all that had happened since the garret
embrace any sacrifice for you and for those dear to you. Try to hold
embraced her.
embracing one another on the triumphs of the day, and achieving them
embrasure of a window, and she had a light shining upon her golden
emerged upon the country road. At two-thirds of a league from the
emigrant."
emigrant? I cry in my sleep where is he? I demand of Heaven, will he
emigrant. It is in vain I represent that I have acted for them, and not
"Emigrant, my friends! Do you not see me here, in France, of my own
"Emigrant," said the functionary, "I am going to send you on to Paris,
"Emigrants have no rights, Evremonde," was the stolid reply. The officer
emotions than grim curiosity and surprise. The led cows, hastily brought
emphasis, the words:
employed to add to the list the name of Charles Evremonde, called
employment in England, through too much unsuccessful hard swearing
emptying itself by many passages had not ceased, when Lucie stood
enables me to pass out of this city. Look at it. You see--Sydney Carton,
Encamped at a quarter before nine, in good time to touch his
enchanted marquis of the impenitently wicked sort, in story, whose
encompass this grim old officer conspicuous in his grey coat and red
encountered by appointment, by me, Jacques Four. He will tell you all.
end; all else was wall. On the third day of her being there, he noticed
end, and bit the feather of a pen.
endeavouring, in the hope of some disclosure, to stay the spirit of a
ended in the words, "I am the resurrection and the life."
end, he added:
end, never doubting that he would save Lucie's husband at last. Yet the
End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of A Tale of Two Cities, by Charles Dickens
*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A TALE OF TWO CITIES ***
end. The ridges thrown to this side and to that, now crumble in and
endurance and distress. It was not for his friend to abate that
endurance, fill with tears, and the lips part a little more and tremble:
enemies of the Republic with which it had to deal, he had been slightly
enfolding arms, "Take her, Charles! She is yours!"
England?
England, always faithful and devoted to his daughter and himself in
England in the autumn of the year one thousand seven hundred and
"England is very attractive to you, seeing how indifferently you have
England, rather than on the industry of the overladen people of France.
England's part. He added, in a jesting way, that perhaps George
English.
"English?" asked Madame Defarge, inquisitively raising her dark
English, concerning the Marquis who was not to be found.
English dress?"
English government, the enemy of France and freedom. That's an excellent
English Twopence for myself. I know that the longer I keep you here, the
English. Which is he?"
enjoyable by the dear ones, depended on his quiet fortitude. So,
enjoyment, while the tradesmen hurriedly shut up their shops; for a
enough for me; nobody will care to interfere with an old fellow of hard
enough; not that I have any fault to find with Doctor Manette, except
enough of this style of life, with no other as a change from it; I
enough of witnesses to-day and to-night; who's your pretty witness?"
enough, or often enough to harass him; and it lightened Mr. Lorry's
"Enough!" said Defarge, with grim impatience. "Long live the Devil! Go
enough to do to keep this wine-shop open, without thinking. All we
enough, to fill the courtyard: not more than forty or fifty in all. The
enough to find her!
ensuring to any accused person any reasonable hearing. There could have
entered after me--the last springing in, after putting up the steps. The
entering. "If, as a honest tradesman, my wenturs goes wrong to-night, I
enter the carriage?'
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.
entreating and beseeching for mercy; now full of vehement agony of
"Entreat me to believe it no more, Miss Manette. I have proved myself,
Environed by them, while the Woodman and the Farmer worked unheeded,
Equality, Fraternity, or Death, that on the door or doorpost of every
equidistant from the two extremes, could see them both), they would
era began; the king was tried, doomed, and beheaded; the Republic of
erst a mender of roads. The sawyer himself did not participate in the
escape might depend on the saving of only a few seconds here and there.
escort appeared, took her in, and took her away.
escort, drunk and sober, a receipt for the escorted, and requested him
especially the bright virtue known as patriotism, or love of country.
established the fact that her brother Solomon was a heartless scoundrel
established voluntarily some time ago, among the more thorough patriots;
establishment was put through the door, and the word was given:
eternal frost, when the light was playing on its surface, and I stood
eternity of people, as well as of time and space. When the foremost
evanescence of the brisk fire. He had a good leg, and was a little vain
Even as it was, she could not command her voice.
even for his life, to disclose. How the evidence that had been warped
"even if it wos so, which I don't say it is--"
evening, and come to your chambers afterwards."
even magnanimous things."
even of last year, or of the year before. That, it was certain the
even the Doctor's entreaties could prevent his being carried to his home
even the fountain appears to fall to that tune. At length, on Sunday
events--out of France. Even I, safe as an Englishman, and even
Even when he had satisfied himself that he was awake, Mr. Lorry felt
Even when there were sounds of sorrow among the rest, they were not
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
Ever busily winding the golden thread that bound them all together,
ever, eleven gone for ever, twelve coming on to pass away. After a hard
ever interpose between us? _I_ know it well, but do you know it? In your
everlasting sea. Before their cells were quit of them, new occupants
Ever pay him? No. Was not this intimacy with the prisoner, in reality a
ever since. As he passed out, the jury, who had turned back and paused a
ever to be found in an elderly gentleman of a fresh complexion who has
ever was known, abandoned his property to the vilest scum of the earth
"Everybody!" from all throats.
Everybody present, except the one wigged gentleman who looked at the
everybody recognised, and which nobody had seen of old; and on the
"Everybody says it is but one of several, and that there will be
every device of decoration that the taste and skill of the time could
"Every drop, Jacques," answered Monsieur Defarge.
every dull little pane of glass. The general scarcity of everything,
Every eye then turned to the five judges and the public prosecutor.
Every eye was turned to the jury. The same determined patriots and good
Every fine straight line in the clear whiteness of his face, was
Every green leaf, every blade of grass and blade of grain, was as
Every living creature there held life as of no account, and was demented
every one of whom had his head hanging on by a single hair as he passed
everything from the light of the coach-lamps but these its own workings,
everything he could think of with a round turn in it, and on the faith
everywhere, nor the quick saddling of horses and riding away?
evidently English.
evidently understood it.
evidently was for the strong fortress-walls which had long encompassed
evil-adverbiously, revealing to the said French Lewis what forces our
evil, in the superlative degree of comparison only.
Evremonde, called Darnay, had reason to know the usage; he had seen
Evremonde is for a moment turned towards him. Evremonde then sees the
exactly what Mr. Attorney-General had described it to be--perhaps, if
exact the promise I am going to exact; I have a reason--a good one."
examination, and had held the examined by the drapery of his arm in an
examination and inquiry. Monsieur Defarge alighted; knowing one or two
examined. That, he seemed on the point of being at once released, when
examined, the last letter was found to be G. There was no record or
Exceedingly red-eyed and grim, as if he had been up all night at a party
exceedingly well, and, as long as the times held together, no man had
except as to the spots on his nose: "I would ride over any of you very
except the clothes I wear, to know whether you suspect the truth, or any
except to perish. In the morning, with my tools upon my shoulder, eating
exchange of the two instruments, and turning on the worm-eaten stool and
excited him greatly, and he asked of the first man who ran against him:
exclaimed, in a voice of dire exasperation:
exclaimed, "Thank _God!_"
"Excuse me, as a persistent man of business. Assuming for a moment,
"Excuse me, Monsieur the Marquis--it is a pity--yes."
execrations, bravery without stint, boom smash and rattle, and the
executed; they say that petitions have been presented in Paris, showing
execute the last request of my dear mother's lips, and obey the last
execution, had cut as his last work, three letters. They were done with
execution, was a great relief to Miss Pross. The necessity of composing
exercise of his other recovered faculties; but, this had never been
exercise of ingenuity stick upon it. Among the first of these volunteers
exhausted. Ha, ha, ha! He is so droll, that Samson. Such a Barber!"
exhaustion, at the hotel of Monseigneur. Such homes had these various
exhaustion; none the less because he knew very well, that the very same
existence, one by one; leisurely, the new postilions follow, sucking and
Expected home.
expected in him when the occasion for repression was gone. But, it was
Expect to get anything by this evidence? No. Not in regular government
explained to him, and he had written to Lucie in accordance with it, and
explain himself.
explanation in his friend's ashy face.
exposed on Temple Bar with an insensate brutality and ferocity worthy of
expression! Good day, one and all!"
expression in all quarters of the court; insomuch, that a great majority
expression of Miss Pross's face, perhaps a sudden misgiving apart from
expressions of impatience were taken up, with marvellous quickness, at
expressly worked to give a more suspicious appearance to the suspicious
express request to Charles Darnay, that the secret of this name should
express that she bore him no malice.
extended, and it seemed to be an appeal to Darnay to pause. The latter
"Extermination is good doctrine, my wife," said Defarge, rather
extinguished the light, and went out.
extraordinary jarring of that chord could renew it. After what has
extraordinary revival of the train of thought and remembrance that
extraordinary tight-fitting fashion, and to have on her head a most
extra something into his name that boded him no good.
extremely like each other, looking silently on at the morning traffic
exultation, deafening and maniacal bewilderment, astounding noise, yet
eyebrows.
eyebrows and forehead with a cold, impassive stare.
eyes and a good bold breadth between them. Good-humoured looking on
eyes, and broke like waves.
eyes and golden hair there, and they looked charming when Samson held
eyes, ears, and spikes.
eyes looked on, Charles Darnay and Lucie Manette were happily married.
eyes of each were, bore a considerable resemblance to a pair of monkeys.
eyes over Gabelle's letter, the same personage in authority showed some
eyes rested on these things, a sudden vivid likeness passed before him,
eyes that had as much spoiling in them as Miss Pross had, and would
eyes turn to him with a gloomy smile.
eyes, who moved across the room, "that you are not in secret?"
eyes, without comparing notes with other eyes, looked at Monsieur
eye to see with--had long had the mote in it of Lucifer's pride,
fabulous mill which ground old people young, shivered at every corner,
face.
face and the brawling crowd, so that his tears and her lips might come
face, and then his inside will be taken out and burnt while he looks on,
face; but, Miss Pross, with her head down, held her round the waist, and
face by hundreds of hands; torn, bruised, panting, bleeding, yet always
face flushed, and his right hand pushed the herbs away.
face habitually suppressed and quieted, was still lighted up under the
face of a true friend of the Republic. Let him take care of his face!"
faces are turned towards the prison. Formerly, they were turned towards
faces: clattering at a heavy dragoon trot over the uneven town pavement,
faces of anger and pain; also, that when that dangling figure was hauled
faces, rather, in a fearful pause, as having yet to raise the dropped
faces well. Made curious by seeing you in that connection, and having
faces, yet with a suspended--not an abolished--expression on them;
face thrown up to the sky, and his head hanging down; then recovered
face to face, quiet, intent upon him, with the light of a smile on his
fact.
faculty of extracting the essence from a heap of statements, which is
failed him. While he was at a loss, Carton said, resuming his former air
failure in my memory; it can recall, and could detail, every word that
failure of his ammunition:" after which the mail was robbed in peace;
faintness of physical weakness, though confinement and hard fare no
faint of heart to-night, my dear!"
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
fair faces, trod with stir enough, and carried their divine rights
faith of a gentleman, that I have long dismissed it from my mind. Good
fallen, or was falling. He remained, therefore, in his seat near the
falling to pieces at the larger joints. As often as the driver rested
False eyebrows and false moustaches were stuck upon them, and their
falter. I did what little could be done to assist that opportunity, and
familiar conversation with the Defarges; and tried them on Madame
familiar. I have no remembrance of the process."
families were publicly cautioned not to go out of town without removing
family!"
family. Defarge, that sister of the mortally wounded boy upon the ground
family name can suffer from me in no other, for I bear it in no other."
family room. Something had gone wrong with him; at least, so Young Jerry
family. The few words that he caught from this man's lips, first made
famished and naked, they ran out with streaming hair, urging one
fancy strikes to the heart of a lost child."
Far and wide lay a ruined country, yielding nothing but desolation.
far apart. They had a sinister expression, under an old cocked-hat like
fardens--fardens! no, nor yet his half fardens--half fardens! no, nor
Farewell.
"Farewell, dear darling of my soul. My parting blessing on my love. We
far, far better rest that I go to than I have ever known."
far from having harshly exacted payment of his dues, that he had
far from Soho-square. On the afternoon of a certain fine Sunday when the
farmer's house in the south country. Poverty parted us, and she knows
far more trying to the accused than to be confronted with all the crowd.
farms, dye-works, tanneries, and the like, cottages in twos and threes,
far outstrip the fastest gallop of the fastest horses ever foaled.
farthing porringer of husky chips of potato, fried with some reluctant
fascination. The form that was to be doomed to be so shamefully mangled,
"Fashion of speech again! But, Mr. Darnay, oblivion is not so easy to
fast. As I stood aside to let that carriage pass, apprehensive that it
fast-dying man.
father.
father, Doctor Manette. Who was called accordingly.
father, even in this sad state, will submit himself to her; do you not?"
father. I hope," bursting into tears, "I may not repay him by doing him
father of his tenants--serfs--what you will--he will be executed as a
father said to her, on coming home one evening:
"Father," said Young Jerry, as they walked along: taking care to keep
father's honest calling, Young Jerry, keeping as close to house fronts,
father's prosperity. You've got a dutiful mother, you have, my son.
father that he expressly confided his wife and child to his care. And
father walked among the terrors with a steady head. On a lightly-snowing
father weep, and sit by, careless. And I could not respect your
father would unquestionably be guilty of this crime, and this woman (the
favour, and the President declared him free.
favoured!--always was for England (by way of example), in the regretted
favour in it, won his own private place there, and earned his own
favour, would outweigh herself and all the world. For which reason,
fawning, what servility, what abject humiliation! As to bowing down in
feared to detach himself lest he should hurt her; therefore he called
fearful of being detected and consigned to an underground cell and total
fearful storm. I released her arms, and called the woman to assist me to
fear. Rather, they originated in a strange besetting desire to know what
feature in it clearly defined; one set expression on it. The nose,
features, and a cautionary finger on his lip, Sydney Carton.
feel certain of not losing himself again. That alone wouldn't make the
feel? Is it worth being tried for one's life, to be the object of such
feels the better for being out of court."
feel that it is a pleasant thing for a man to have a home when he feels
feel the appealing touch.
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
feet.
feet and on his bench. He had a white beard, raggedly cut, but not very
feet. As he did so, a small case in which the Doctor was accustomed to
feet. For, the footsteps had become to their minds as the footsteps of
feet, it formed the encampment for the day. On this post of his, Mr.
feet, rubbed his beard a little, and at length said:
feet, she dropped insensible in his arms.
fell asleep. In the morning, he was up betimes, and went straight to his
fell as quietly and lay as white and soft, as if it had never been.
fellow? Between ourselves."
fellow-citizen, is a good Republican and a bold man; he has deserved
fellow in that sort of society. You are a disagreeable fellow."
fellow-Jurymen."
fellow? Let us look at his infamous name. D--n the fellow!"
fellow-Sheep, who spoke of himself as pasturing in the country prisons;
felt his freedom more completely gone.
felt it. That was the manner of our beginning to speak together."
felt, now, that his suffering was strength and power. For the first time
felt that she was sinking.
felt to be a new one. She laid down her knitting, and began to pin her
female was by that time popularly canonised. His shop was shut and he
feminine gender--and he made his formal bow to Miss Manette.
Fetch barber to Concord. Stir about there, now, for Concord!"
few, and belated women few, and when his affairs in general were so
Few children were to be seen, and no dogs. As to the men and women,
Few coaches were abroad, for riders in coaches were liable to be
few days of complete rest. In aid of the kind deception to be practised
few minutes brought them to Mr. Lorry's destination. Carton left him
few moments, said:
few smith's tools, a couple of torches, and a tinder-box. For he was
few swift moments to which it referred; a wondering that was more like
fidget me to death," said Miss Pross: whose character (dissociated from
fifth floor. The doorway of the staircase gives on the little courtyard
fifty particular friends, inspired as one man and woman by the idea of
"Fifty-two."
fight low, as my brother Solomon used to say. Now, Mr. Cruncher!--Don't
figure in wood, done by some inexperienced rustic carver, but he had
figure. It had no effect upon the cries; no pendulum could be more
figure lingering there, and still lingering there when the first beams
figure of a dark stout woman, knitting.
figures, begirt the blazing edifice with a new forest of smoke. Molten
figures on the terrace; nor the booting and tramping here and there and
figure that could have put out its hand and touched him as he stooped
filled the place, and stopped to dance about Lucie, some ghastly
filtered through the barrier very slowly. Some of these people knew
Finally, he had proposed, after anxious consideration, that Miss Pross
finally his own. A gaoler, with a list in his hand, looked in, merely
final way; "no matter, no matter."
find a fellow like this fellow, trusting himself to the mercies of such
find it, gives him a sudden sense of terror, like that which one may
fine linen, there was a flutter in the air that fanned Saint Antoine and
fine mask, opened a conversation.
fine texture; his shoes and buckles, too, though plain, were trim. He
finger at his nose. "When Monsieur the Marquis demands that evening,
fingers, and touched his lips.
finger--!" She seemed to raise it (the listener's eyes were always on
fingers in his following of the evidence. He had now to attend while Mr.
fingers moved nimbly.
finger yet raised, and as it dropped, he dropped with it, and I laid him
finished, two centuries ago.
finish those shoes."
fire. A light, or a shade (the old gentleman could not have said which),
fired blunderbusses in among them, loaded with rounds of shot and ball;
fire. The eye could not detect one creature in the group free from
firewood that the man sawed off; Hunger stared down from the smokeless
firmness of self-conviction, "that anything but the one train of
first, and often gave him drink-money, which he readily received.
first became aware of her; but, she now advanced one step.
first been so monstrously abused, that the suicidal vengeance of the
first looking down on this side of himself, then on that, as if he had
first Minister of State, or the richest merchant in London. So with the
first moment, the prisoner misdoubted him to be an apparition of his own
"First," said Mr. Cruncher, who was all in a tremble, and who spoke with
first time, and pointing her knitting-needle at little Lucie as if it
first time in his life, and took his post by the window in the same
first time in many years, he had no strong drink. Since last night he
first wandering in this manner, and forgetting to speak.
fish.
fishing tackle of that nature. Disposing these articles about him
fishing was done in the port, and a quantity of strolling about by
fit anything.
five-and-twenty, well-grown and well-looking, with a sunburnt cheek and
five hundred strong, in cavalry alone. Saint Antoine wrote his crimes
five minutes.
five or six times: it might be twice or thrice running: it might be, not
"Five paces by four and a half, five paces by four and a half, five
fixed attention, though it included all the four expressions--as his
fixedly at the ground.
fixedly contrasting with the rest, that never did sea roll which bore
fixed the knife, blade upwards, with its point in the air. He is hanged
flambeau carried up the steps, and the other flambeau held at the great
flame, and was as quick as youth.
flaming logs, which was tumbling forward. He wore the white riding-coat
flashed upon his mind, "this is the day of my death!"
flattened his flaxen wig upon his head with both hands (which was most
flattering delusion since he came to it from the Tribunal. In every line
flavour of imprisoned sleep, becomes manifest in all such places that
Fleet-street, and so, up a covered way, into a tavern. Here, they were
Fleet-street with his grisly urchin beside him, a vast number and
flickered in flames of faces at most doors and windows. Yet, no one had
flights of steps the rain ran wildly, and beat at the great door, like a
flinging other refuse from its own windows. The uncontrollable and
flints, and the last screw of the rack having been turned so often that
floated away for the Loadstone Rock.
floor was examined very carefully under the inscription, and, in the
flop (if it was anyways conwenient) to get 'em out o' this here dismal
flopping tricks and your unfeeling conduct. Look at your boy: he _is_
florid countenance of Mr. Stryver might be daily seen, bursting out of
flourishes. She acknowledged their homage by bending her head, and
flourishing condition, save tools and weapons; but, the cutler's knives
flow, higher and higher, to the terror and wonder of the beholders on
flowing golden hair; as if he pictured to himself that it might have
flung his glass over his shoulder against the wall, where it shivered to
flush of pride in it.
Fluttering hopes and doubts--hopes, of a love as yet unknown to her:
flying back against the nearest wall.
folding her mantle ready for laying by, and smoothing her rich hair with
followed out of the room, followed down the stairs, followed down the
followed them, and no man spoke when they entered the wine-shop, though
follow. His arms are swelled because of being bound so tight, his wooden
following made all new again; he knew very well, that to the force of
follows.
food nor drink; "the guard, horse and foot, surrounded the petitioner,
foot.
footsore, and his ankles chafed and bleeding; his great shoes, stuffed
footsteps at her own early grave; and thoughts of the husband who would
footsteps close at hand, these three turned, and rose, and showed
Footsteps in the stone passage outside the door. He stopped.
footsteps passed along distant passages: no cry was raised, or hurry
footsteps raging in Saint Antoine afar off, as the little circle sat in
footstep was there.
foot, the like of which was once a rarity in those parts, but was now
For additional contact information:
For a few moments there was a pause, and a hurry, and a murmur, and
forage where he could, the Farmer-General--howsoever his matrimonial
for a little while. I saw her pass me on the road. When I took the
for all that, and in his secret mind it troubled him greatly.
for a merciful consideration of all his poor blindnesses and errors,
for a moment; but he was so alert, and made such good use of his time,
For a moment, he held the fair face from him to look at the
For an instant, the Doctor even had his two hands at his ears; for
for." As Young Jerry, thus encouraged, went on a few yards in advance,
for a way across the street through the mud. He carried the child over,
for a week or a fortnight together. It was enough that he could and did
"Forbid it," proceeded Mr. Cruncher, with additional solemnity,
forbid them not. They see my Father's face. O Father, blessed words!
for breakfast, and the lumbering deal table, a very clean white cloth
Force."
force and power to it in this one passage of her life.
force stones and bricks out of their places in walls. Every pulse and
forcible. Mr. Lorry's spirits grew heavier and heavier, as he and his
forcing itself through turbid water, and dragged his useful friend in
for contraband goods, and the mob fired on the musketeers, and the
for drink, he moved this muffler with his left hand, only while he
forefinger, and with a studious and absorbed face. They were all leaning
forefinger drew a cross in the air. He stood for an instant with the
forehead lifted itself into that singular expression--but it was pretty
forehead on his hands. The Spy returned immediately, with two men.
forehead, which had so particularly attracted his notice, and which was
foreign ambassadors had one and all left Paris. On the road (except at
fore-legs till I get you on the level," said this hoarse messenger,
fore-most chairs, stands The Vengeance, looking about for her friend.
fore-most of just judges and honoured men, bringing a boy of my name,
forensic forefinger at the Temple in general, when it was down, "my way
for France, as the like always is for all countries similarly
forge?"
forgotten, it will never be found when I am dead of the same malady, I
"For gracious sake, don't talk about Liberty; we have quite enough of
"For gracious sake say something else besides 'indeed,' or you'll
for her father, and they sat alone under the plane-tree.
for her father's sake, never to seek to know whether her father had
for her, then, and for me! Good gentlemen, thank God! I feel his sacred
for his daughter's--his daughter's, my dear Manette."
for his own personal safety, every hour in the day.
"'For his sake, Doctor,' she said, pointing to him in tears, 'I would do
for I had seen common people struck more commonly than dogs. But, the
for imaginary disorders that never existed, smiled upon their courtly
for, in her restless strivings she had turned over on her face on the
"For instance--"
"For instance," returned Madame Defarge, composedly, "shrouds."
for instructions.
For, in these times, as the mender of roads worked, solitary, in the
for it.
for it. I had no other object than to turn a slight thing, which, to my
for it just the same as if I seen you do it."
for knowing what I knew from the boy. He was smoother and more polite to
for listening to the trees and to the fountain, that the few village
forlorner for being delayed till dark. I should like to know how you
forlornness up the hill, like an evil spirit, seeking rest and finding
for loving you better than words can tell, and thanking God for my great
for Lucie and her child, without a moment's demur; but the great trust
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
for many hours, and that it would probably end in the silence of the
"For me."
for me. A parting blessing for our child."
for me. But, if my life were not to be still consecrated to you, or
for me in a worldly point of view--it is hardly necessary to say I could
for me on the anniversary of this day. I see her and her husband, their
former entertainment was much the dearer. Therefore, all the Old Bailey
for me, with my fervent acknowledgments?"
forms. Free and happy, back in the old house in Soho (though it had
form through mere passing conjuration, then resume thy former aspect!"
"For my sake, then, be merciful to my husband. For my child's sake! She
for nothing--since she was ten years old. And it's really very hard,"
for no voice could be heard in it. A memorable storm of thunder and
for our lives to keep a single tame bird of our own, pillaged and
For some months past, Miss Pross and Mr. Cruncher had discharged the
for such purposes, they have to pay for it. He knew beforehand what the
forth a sack, a crowbar of convenient size, a rope and chain, and other
for that circumstance. Mr. Darnay, good night, God bless you, sir!
forth; but, the previous identification was so strict, that they
for the best public thoroughfares remained uncleansed in those times of
for the Crown, to refer to whom however unworthily was an honour, had
for the day was drawing to an end, it came at last to their hastily
for the defence, and its counsel, Mr. Stryver, stood gathered round Mr.
for the disclosure he was about to make, "because I know you don't mean
for the fulfilment of Miss Pross's prediction.
for their merits; that is enough."
for the lamp, Miss Pross bethought herself of the wine they wanted.
for the light of a flambeau, as his carriage stopped, and the great door
for the lord, tax local and tax general, were to be paid here and to be
for the lost wine. "It's not my affair," said he, with a final shrug
"For the love of Heaven, of justice, of generosity, of the honour of
"For the reason that my hand had this effect (I assume), I had sat by
For the rest, the Old Bailey was famous as a kind of deadly inn-yard,
For, the rooms, though a beautiful scene to look at, and adorned with
for the sickliest, and of youth for the oldest, Sydney's feet still trod
For, the time was to come, when the gaunt scarecrows of that region
"For the truth. O dear, good, compassionate sir, for the truth!"
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
forth on his return-passage to Clerkenwell. There were solitary patches
for those who were announced as being thus fatally recorded. Charles
forth, prince, our Lord the King, by reason of his having, on divers
for three heavy hours; for three heavy hours, the horses in the stables
For three heavy hours, the stone faces of the chateau, lion and human,
Fortified towns with their stockades, guard-houses, gates, trenches, and
fortnightly reception in his grand hotel in Paris. Monseigneur was in
fortnight, while you are in Warwickshire and thereabouts, even Tellson's
"For to-morrow!"
fortress on it used as a prison. Round upon all these darkening objects
fortunate in having his remedy at hand; for, soon the large-faced King
fortune on the Doctor's daughter, resolved to make her happiness known
fortune: she is a charming creature, and I have made up my mind to
forty-two; ten more heads are worth having. The Guillotine goes
for walking exercise, under the circumstances, but because the hill,
Forward!" from the uniform. "Adieu!" from Defarge. And so, under a short
forward in a mass, like one great heave of water, all flashes away.
forward over their eyes, now flung backward over their necks, some women
for what he would have undug--if it wos so--by diggin' of 'em in with
For, what would staid British responsibility and respectability have
for when he and Doctor Manette emerged from the gate, there was a great
for which it had been reserved, may have struck the prisoner's mind. Be
"For which side?"
"For you, citizen?"
Foulon taken, my daughter! Then, a score of others ran into the midst of
Foulon to pieces, and dig him into the ground, that grass may grow from
found a self-appointed Tribunal sitting, before which the prisoners were
found at his forge again. Is it not a pity that he should keep it by
Foundation
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.
foundations could--I have imagined her as coming to me in my cell, and
found him alive, hiding in the country, and have brought him in. I have
found in London. There was no way through it, and the front windows of
found me and demanded to know if I would take him, and, at my peril be
fountain.
fountain, all usual poor appointments. It had its poor people too. All
fountain, and the peasants suspended their operations to look at him.
fountain; some, to the fields; men and women here, to dig and delve; men
fountain, washing leaves, and grasses, and any such small yieldings of
four in the room, and she shut them all. She then placed herself before
fragments with eager relish. There was no drainage to carry off the
France, and that as I am an orphan and have no friend who could go with
France at this time of day!"
France by every highway and byway, and their property was in course of
France. Confided to the cares of Messrs. Tellson and Co., Bankers,
France: first, as a tempter and an eavesdropper among his own countrymen
France here."
France, less favoured on the whole as to matters spiritual than her
France shook the rags of the scarecrows in vain, for the birds, fine of
France that might impeach him for it.
France--who, knowing me to have been a prisoner in the Bastille, would
France, with its rich variety of soil and climate, a blade, a leaf,
Frantic acclamations were again raised. Doctor Manette sat down, with
Fraternity, or Death!
frayed away; and then poor lights began to shine in high windows, and
freed.
Freedom and Life. So much was closing in about the women who sat
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
French."
"French, eh?" repeated Carton, musing, and not appearing to notice him
French) for a small measure of wine, Madame Defarge cast a careless
French gentlemen and French families, were entirely in Tellson's hands.
French government, was formerly in the employ of the aristocratic
Frenchman, represents himself to his employers under a false name.
French. Yet like a foreigner, I thought?"
"French. You don't know him," said the spy, quickly.
frequently observable, and had grown more and more rare.
friend before him in his accustomed clothing and aspect, and employed
friend, but, at once in an auspicious and an evil hour detecting his
friend) for treason? But, Mr. Stryver replied to my Lord, no; but he
friend, in ten years' time enriching them with all he has, and passing
friend, in the morning stillness. He walked by the stream, far from the
friendly heart to believe that he looked up oftener, and that he
friends, I scarcely mean quite that, either."
friends, we are ready! The Bastille!"
"Friends, you deceive yourselves, or you are deceived. I am not a
frightened! Not one of them would harm you."
frightened--rave--tear himself to pieces--die--come to I know not what
frightful suddenness. But she sat perfectly still in his grasp, and only
frightful to me, responsible for it, but powerless in it; seeking to
frivolity, the ghost of wit, the ghost of youth, the ghost of age, all
fro in the strong arched room: sometimes, resting on a stone seat: in
from a congress of British subjects in America: which, strange
from any lips; and that if I knew any man--which I hope I do not--whose
from any passing vehicle to keep the cold and wet from the odd-job-man's
     from Charles to his wife.  Let the bearer see his wife."
from!" cried Miss Pross, "to give me such a greeting, and show me no
from direct light and air, faded down to such a dull uniformity of
from flying at the objects of his brief devotion and tearing them to
from France."
from France reported himself and his tidings at Tellson's, almost as
"From here, at eight."
from him, and, after remaining absent for an hour, returned. In the
from him in the Hall.
from him it had been more slowly pressed and passed back; at last it got
from him of the previous night, running home through darkness and
From his oppressed slumber, Young Jerry in his closet was awakened after
from his wife and child, he foreshadowed the likelihood, or the
"From London?"
from London in winter was an achievement to congratulate an adventurous
from Sunday morning unto Saturday night.
From that time, in all weathers, she waited there two hours. As the
from the beach, and ran its head into the chalk cliffs, like a marine
from the clasping hand, and cautiously looked out again. A man, so
from the corners of his mouth to his ears. "On the top of the gallows is
from the depths of his soul, it was also in its nature to arise of
From the dimly-lighted passages of the court, the last sediment of the
from the Doctor. "I salute you, citizen." This in passing. Nothing more.
from the horror of being ogled through the windows, by the heads
from their high estate. Again: those nobles who had seen the coming
from them until they were dug out.
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
From the streets beyond the high wall and the strong gate, there came
"From the time of our alighting at the outer gate (which we found
from the whirling grindstone of his indignation, Mr. Cruncher betook
"From this prison here of horror, whence I every hour tend nearer and
from which pale travellers set out continually, in carts and coaches, on
from which the Cross was discarded, and it was bowed down to and
from which the loves and graces looked upon him, gardens in which the
from which they had wandered; when they rested on it, he started, and
from windows, caught up what arms they had, and came pouring down into
from your care that his daughter took him, accompanied by a neat brown
frontier! You see?"
front of the chateau.
fruitful banks of the broad rivers, and in the sand of the sea-shore.
fruitless help. Happily, she bethought herself of the consequences of
fruits of life hung ripening, waters of Hope that sparkled in his sight.
frying and sputtering in my head. If you want me to guess, you must ask
full of the others, that he never once thought of him.
fully appreciate the anxiety I have felt that your life should not be
fully comprehended that no personal influence could possibly save him,
functionaries and soldiery turned with success, and whom they strung up
functionary who worked it; but, so armed, he was stronger than his
function so affectingly and delicately indicated by his other parent.
funeral of one Roger Cly.
Funerals had at all times a remarkable attraction for Mr. Cruncher; he
funeral was coming along, and that there was popular objection to this
funeral, which engendered uproar.
furious dumb-show.
furious manner through the press, hammer in hand; "and you are a cursed
furious sounding of the living sea; but, still the deep ditch, and the
furnished--evidently, recently occupied and temporarily used. Some thick
furnished with that completeness that if the coach-lamps had been blown
furniture, tolerated for its old service, and taken no notice of. I
further from his thoughts or practice--"which I don't say it is--wot I
fur to bear in mind that wot I said just now, I up and said in the good
Future, for Monseigneur's guidance. Besides these Dervishes, were other
"Gabelle."
Gabelle!"
"Gabelle. And what is the message to the unfortunate Gabelle in prison?"
Gabelle had resolved! But, the friendly dawn appearing at last, and the
Gabelle hinted, with infinite delicacy and politeness, that in the
Gabelle's door. "Help, Gabelle! Help, every one!" The tocsin rang
gaily, as he looked among his papers.
gained the hill-top, that its occupant was steeped in crimson. "It will
gaining a livelihood. Some of us have damp ways, and some of us have dry
gallantries and politenesses likely to pass between any young gentleman
gallows, pillory, whipping-post, and branding-iron, should repeople it.
gaoler. I examine it, very closely. In a hole in the chimney, where a
gaolers moving about, who would have been well enough as to appearance
gaol. Games at cards languished, players at dominoes musingly built
gaols fought battles with their turnkeys, and the majesty of the law
garnering time of harvest, was as far out of his knowledge as if it had
garret but a pallet bed), and he and Mr. Lorry roused the captive, and
Gaspard! It is better for the poor little plaything to die so, than to
Gaspard!" With a sigh of great compassion.
gate. Looking about him while in this state of suspense, Charles
gates. Soldiers with lanterns, at the guard-house there. "Your papers,
gathered on the scene that appeared more natural to it than sunshine.
gathered to see him dismount of the posting-yard, and many voices called
gauze curtains fall around him, and heard the night break its silence
gave great satisfaction to the spectators. A life-thirsting,
gave me a rouleau of gold. I took it from his hand, but laid it on
     gbnewby@pglaf.org
general body of prisoners; he saw her husband weekly, and brought sweet
generally getting through the day; thirdly, because he happened to have
generations of great luxury and expense, was growing poor. Hence
generosity and mercy, or which they regarded as some set-off against
genius (or perhaps the same) conceived the humour of impeaching casual
gentleman advanced from his corner, and begged the favour of a word.
gentleman; a man of great acquirements--a Doctor."
gentleman breathing."
gentleman came on board--"
gentleman from Tellson's Bank. Please to let me know."
gentleman had left London, but I think a messenger was sent after him to
gentleman is to be found."
gentleman of courtly appearance and address, coming forward, "I have the
gentleman of that name.
gentleman's boots in Concord. (You will find a fine sea-coal fire, sir.)
gentleman, shaking his head; "that's questions enough for you; I ain't a
gentleman, the prisoner's counsel, who had a great bundle of papers
gentleman was of Beauvais. Like Monsieur Manette, your father, the
gentleman was of repute in Paris. I had the honour of knowing him there.
"'Gentlemen,' I returned, 'I am that Doctor Manette of whom you speak so
"Gentlemen," said her husband, who had kept his bright eye observantly
"'Gentlemen,' said I, 'pardon me; but I usually inquire who does me
gentlemen," said Stryver, looking all round, and snapping his fingers,
gentleness: calling her "my precious!" and "my bird!" and spreading her
"Genuine truth, Mr. Darnay, trust me! I have gone aside from my purpose;
get back to England. If you have, don't expect me to keep your secret.
get on."
get shelter before the storm broke; the wonderful corner for echoes
get the bonnet and other things that she must wear. These she put on,
getting down, and taking him gravely apart, "these are the papers of
getting of them out of harm's way, is within the power (without loss of
getting old, and we really can't be troubled out of the ordinary course
getting shot instantly as a highwayman.
ghost had been laid only a round dozen of years, after rapping out its
giddily uncertain for some few moments whether the late shoemaking might
giddinesses of empty-headed girls; you must not expect to do it, or you
girl. Here and there in the long street of St. Honore, cries are raised
give--and which you cannot escape from giving--with great unwillingness,
"Give me the worst first."
"Give me your arm, my love. Pass from here with an air of cheerfulness
"Give me your hand. She will be home directly, and it is better she
given twenty years of life, to petrify with a well-directed gun.
Give us the heart of Foulon, Give us the body and soul of Foulon, Rend
give your mind to it, and advise me well for his sake--and above all,
giving them a quick look. Then she glanced in a casual manner round the
giving them what comfort he could, and much more than he had himself.
Giving this citizen, too, good night, as he confronted him at his
glad that the thing has dropped, because it would have been a bad thing
glance at him, and then a keener, and then a keener, and then advanced
glanced at her darling's golden hair in the light of the fire, "then we
glanced at the distant House, and lowered his voice, "you can have no
glanced at the shoe with some little passing touch of pride.
glanced on the bride's hand, which were newly released from the
Glancing at his hands, which were discoloured by his late work, the
glancing at his mare. "'Recalled to life.' That's a Blazing strange
glancing upward at the moon, "until to-morrow. I can't sleep."
glare of brightness. It was a cool spot, staid but cheerful, a wonderful
glass could ever have rendered back its reflections, as the ocean is one
glassful of wine with as complete an appearance of satisfaction as is
glassful--pushed the bottle thoughtfully away.
glass that hung against the wall, and surveyed himself minutely in it.
glass (which fortunately was a small one) again. "Can't-be. Spoke good
glass with an air of stolid desperation, settle his odd little flaxen
gleam had driven from his sacred countenance, the darkness of it was
glided into his view, floated by him, and died away. As its silent track
gloomily shook his head.
gloom, so spectral did they become in the inappropriate squalor and
gloomy tile-paved staircase, Monsieur Defarge bent down on one knee
gloweringly confidential together. Nothing was represented in a
gnats circling about them in lieu of the Furies, quietly mended the
gnawing another finger.
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
go among the trusty people who were watching it, when his door suddenly
"Go and see him when he has a good batch. Figure this to yourself,
goblin shadow on the wall. Tracing it to its source, he discovered it
"God bless her for her sweet compassion!"
"God bless you for your sweet compassion!"
God for us, thank God!"
"God knows it is a shame!"
"God knows. It was my way, I suppose."
go in at the door again; but, she did go in, and even went near it, to
going away that he might hear no more, and remaining to interpose his
"Going?" echoed madame. "She was pretty enough to have been married long
going out, till you've been long abed."
going to bed, the carriage of the Marquis slowly ascending the hill, he
going to bed, where they have a red edge, messieurs. Also, I see that
going to marry the nephew of Monsieur the Marquis, for whom Gaspard
going to rest, forgetful through a few calm hours of the horrors
going to work. In one narrow, dark, and dirty street through which they
golden hair against his little brown wig, with a genuine tenderness and
golden hair aside over her shoulders with great pride and care.
gone.
gone along the streets without being stopped. By good fortune, too, she
"Gone deaf in an hour?" said Mr. Cruncher, ruminating, with his mind
gone far, when he was joined by another disciple of Izaak Walton, and
gone, he thought in the same wandering way, "Now am I left, as if I were
gone out of the wine-shop singly. And between them and the white-haired
gone so far in his expression of opinion on any less solid ground than
"Good."
good abilities and good emotions, incapable of their directed exercise,
good as dead and gone.
"Good day!"
"Good day!" answered Defarge, drily.
"Good day, citizen."
"Good day, citizeness."
"Good day, gentlemen!" said Monsieur Defarge.
"Good day, Jacques!" the spy repeated; with not quite so much
"Good day, madame," said the new-comer.
"Good day, monsieur."
"Good day!" said Monsieur Defarge, looking down at the white head that
"Good evening."
good-fellowship, what he did mean?
"Good God!" he said, with a start. "What's that?"
"Good. His appearance; is it known?"
good-humoured laugh, "don't _you_ be moral!"
Good Miss Pross! As if the estrangement between them had come of any
"Good night, citizen."
"Good night, citizen," said Sydney Carton, pausing in going by; for, the
"Good night, Mr. Carton," said the man of business. "Good night, Mr.
"Good night!" said the uncle. "I look to the pleasure of seeing you
good Pross. Our good Pross, Defarge, is an English lady, and knows no
Good Republican Brutus of Antiquity, except that it was something very
Good Republican Brutus of Antiquity, not far from the National Palace,
"Good," said the imperturbable master. "Close them again."
"Good!" said the mender of roads, with an air of mystery. "The tall man
"Good!" said the sleeper, rising on his elbow. "Two leagues beyond the
good. Twenty-two friends of high public mark, twenty-one living and one
good, until recalled. But it may be soon recalled, and, I have reason to
"Good. When do you cease to work?"
good, with you, at all?"
"Go on, Jacques," said Defarge.
"Go on," said Sydney Carton.
"Go on then," said Defarge.
goose and not the gander. And here's Mrs. Cruncher, or leastways wos
got his arm securely round the daughter's waist, and held her; for he
go to bed. I am collecting my tools to descend to my cottage down in the
go to Mr. Lorry's at nine, shall I hear what you have done, either from
got out of the mail in the night, as a blind, at a place where he did
got to his own door he had reason for being half dead. And even then
got to the end of a bottle, when a rattling of wheels came up the narrow
got up from the ground, and came running at the carriage, Monsieur the
government there, he had actually been tried for his life by it, as
governor's body lay--down on the sole of the shoe of Madame Defarge
grace and gladden you. O Miss Manette, when the little picture of a
graceful gesture of protest, which was so clearly a slight form of good
graciously.'
grand woman!"
"Granted. Thank you. Well, Mr. Stryver, I was about to say:--it might be
grass."
gratefully acknowledged in France on his presenting himself to assert
grave.
grave grounds as had just now been suggested to his mind, he foresaw
graves of black mahogany, and no light to speak of could be expected
gravity.
great?"
great deal. Nor is that all; my house has been destroyed--razed to the
greater concourse than usual, to-day."
greater hope there is for my Ladybird. I'll not leave a handful of that
Greater things than the Doctor had at that time to contend with, would
greatest ardour, "Spies! Yaha! Tst, tst! Spi--ies!"
greatest of men in his native country, an official among foreigners, and
great exertion of body, and of constantly making fresh additions to his
great flaring flambeaux, and in the light of these, standing out in the
great gentleness and kindness for my father's state, and I am sure he
great hope. As it pleased Heaven in its mercy to restore him so soon, I
Greatly too much for him.
great rate. He had taken service with the prisoner, in good faith and
great relief. "You shall not put me in the wrong, young lady," said Mr.
great things as this. But try! Of little worth as life is when we misuse
great towers of Notre Dame; three hundred thousand men, summoned to rise
great woman," said he, "a strong woman, a grand woman, a frightfully
great wooden shoes, and lay down on his back on the heap of stones. He
grew, and the hawthorn blossomed, in the now vanished fields. As a
grief; by turns she clasped her veinous and knotted hands together
grimmer with certain heavy riding-rods and riding-whips, of which many a
gripping fingers were deep in her face, and her hair was torn, and her
grocer, and the mother of two children withal, this lieutenant had
ground.
ground. At the last words, he stretched out his hand again, hurriedly,
ground floor had, in a rather significant manner.
ground, like a distracted child.
grounds all night, quieting the frogs, in order that their noble sleep
grounds--the only grounds ever worth taking into account--it was a
ground to sleep or smoke, while others talked together, or loitered
grouped themselves anew; while even my Lord himself arose from his seat,
group when it was done, some diamonds, very bright and sparkling,
grove of feebler and feebler over-swinging lamps, out under the great
grove of stars.
growed up!"
growing worse, and was not at its worst, a woman was kneeling. She
Growling, in addition, such phrases as "Ah! yes! You're religious, too.
grown faces, and ploughed into every furrow of age and coming up afresh,
grown, for the National Razor shaved him close.
gruff sound of acquiescence.
guardhouse, and the usual lanterns came glancing forth for the usual
guard-house in this small place had been such, that he felt his journey
guardhouse steps and turned into Paris, "who married the daughter of
guard, in gruff soliloquy. "Hallo you!"
"Guard!" said the passenger, in a tone of quiet business confidence.
"Guess."
guillotined and forgotten. The list was read, in the vaulted chamber
guillotine then surely swallowed up. He knew, as every one employed as
guilty manner, Mr. Lorry hacked the shoemaker's bench to pieces, while
guinea."
gunmaker's stock was murderous. The crippling stones of the pavement,
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
Gutenberg-tm License.
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
habits. If I should prowl about the streets a long time, don't be
had a congenial air of retirement on it. There were few buildings then,
had announced himself by name and profession as having been for eighteen
"Had any papers been handed about among them, similar to these lists?"
had arrived from London, and would be happy to see the gentleman from
had a tendency to be sucked towards the vortex where Defarge himself,
had been a vivid flash which had shown him lounging in the window.
had been a witness on that English trial and could corroborate his
had been born and bred; also, there were other villagers and townspeople
had been chewing, and cogitated.
had been, for many years, built up and forgotten. Every stone of
had been remitted until morning, in the middle of the night.
had been summoned before it, and had been set at liberty on the Jury's
had been taken to account for his silence, Mr. Lorry had previously
had been the vainest and handsomest of women. Her darling was a pleasant
had begun to echo so resoundingly to the tread of coming feet, that it
had bound a pike with a red cap on its top. In this car of triumph, not
had brought with them, besides travelling cloaks and wrappers, bread and
had but sprung over a railing and a table, and folded the miserable
had crept along the wall to a point where she could see him, and where
had crept out of their holes to look on, and they remained looking
had dammed it into little pools; these were surrounded, each by its own
had entered, "is from Saint Antoine."
had entered on the routine of his avocations, she arranged the little
had gone before it, that the two beholders covered their faces.
had gone on before, to prepare her, and when her husband stood upon his
had had any particle of doubt left, her talk would of necessity have
had had no pity for him were touched by her; and the whisper went about,
had had the hardihood to propose to another to walk on a little ahead
had had to pay heavily for his bad food, and for his guard, and towards
Had he ever been a spy himself? No, he scorned the base insinuation.
Had he inherited it? Yes, he had. From whom? Distant relation. Very
had kept it so a little while, he said, drawing it back:
had lain dormant during the cessation of its usefulness, he believed.
had left his saw sticking in the firewood he was cutting, set it in
had looked at the questioner, before the face had dropped again.
had made her, he was recompensed for his suffering, he was proud of his
had momentarily darkened with her hand; "such a cruel, bad sight."
had more than once happened, that the Judge in the black cap pronounced
had never taken that cold in your voice," said Miss Pross, approvingly.
had no intention of rendering those trifling articles of remembrance
had not extended to the mournful cadence of his low grave voice, and
had not known how to do it well, not understanding how the wind would
had not yet swooped into the Hall, like birds of prey from their high
had occurred. If he appeared to be in his customary state of mind, Mr.
had of her.
had once been a mender of roads), cast a glance at the prison, pointed
had recourse to no process. The only response is, that I have acted for
had remained in that Hall of Blood until the danger was over.
had rushed in to work at the grindstone; it had evidently been set up
had seen that nobleman very lately.
had seen the prisoner show these identical lists to French gentlemen
had since improved.
had slept. East, West, North, and South, through the woods, four
had spoken, was like recalling some very weak person from a swoon, or
had still exacted on the morning of their marriage. He entreated her,
had stood conspicuous, knitting, still knitted on with the steadfastness
had stunned the Doctor's daughter into awaiting the result in idle
had suffered so intensely from this cause before her little child was
had taken nothing but a little light thin wine, and last night he had
had that man before us at the Old Bailey."
had that rather wild, strained, seared marking about the eyes, which
had the charge of him, I know. He was delivered to you. You see I am
"Had they conferred together?"
had wandered and struggled and got lost, but who at length struck into
had, within a few days, taken him to France, and might, at intervals,
had witnessed, came to nothing, involving the mere little innocent
had worked them down, was the mill that grinds young people old; the
had written something, and hidden it away to keep it from the gaoler."
had yielded fruit equally on hill and plain, on rock, in gravel, and
haggard, faded surface of face had come back to him. He worked
Haggard Saint Antoine had had only one exultant week, in which to soften
Hah!" And he took another gentle little pinch of snuff, and lightly
Ha, ha! That was well done. Let him eat it now!" Madame put her knife
"Hah! Evremonde has an assignation elsewhere. Lucie, her child. English.
"Hah! Good day, age about forty, height about five feet nine, black
"Hah! Many suffer with it. Lucie. His daughter. French. Which is she?"
"Hah!" muttered Defarge.
"Hah!" said the Marquis again, in a well-satisfied manner.
"Hah!" said the Marquis, glancing round the luxurious room.
Hailing his softened tone and manner, his daughter fell upon her knees
hair, and she looked like * * * * Let us ride on again, for God's sake,
hair, a pair of blue eyes that met his own with an inquiring look, and
hair, generally rather handsome visage, complexion dark, eyes dark,
hairs, which he had, in some old day, wound off upon his finger.
hair, which they tore in a frenzy. It died out, as everything but his
half-dozen other particular friends promptly hauled him out, and
half-dozen times a year, at most, he claimed his privilege of coming in
half of public street and road, and shaming few good citizens, if any.
half turned from the prisoner, lounging with his elbow against the bar.
half way through it, when he again stopped with his glass in his hand,
half you say; and if you meant it all, it would be of no importance. I
hall grim with certain old boar-spears, swords, and knives of the chase;
--Halloa, father!" and, after raising this fictitious alarm, darting in
"Halloa!" said Mr. Stryver. "How do you do? I hope you are well!"
"Halloa!" the guard replied.
"Hallo, Joe."
hand.
hand again in his breast--looked steadily at him.
hand, and held out. A joker of an extremely, not to say wolfishly
hand, and it was his real grasp.
hand at Newgate by the dozen, and now burning pamphlets at the door of
hand free, to wave to me; I dare not call to him; he regards me like a
hand? I am not afraid, but I am little and weak, and it will give me
hand, "it does not all depend on one old man, but I shall have a young
handkerchief, in a chain of separate knots, for safe keeping through the
handkerchiefs from women's heads, which were squeezed dry into infants'
hand, Mr. Barsad?"
hand on the back of his wife's chair, looking over that barrier at the
hands.
hands as I smite it now, and I tell him, 'Defarge, I was brought up
hand--separated him from the rest, and got him between himself and the
hands in his pockets, and his eyes on the ceiling as they had been all
hands in his waistband again, and lay down to meditate. The jackal then
hands in its pockets, and you could hardly blink at it in the dismal
hands is not so much as suspended, while the eyes survey the faces in
hands lying quiet on the coverlet. She put her needless candle in the
handsome face, and a remarkable one.
handsomely. I love it. Hi forward. Whoop!"
handsome man, not past the prime of life.
handsome old lady, that she heard him say, "A life you love."
handsome peasant boy--a boy of not more than seventeen at the most.
hands that knitted. It was a passionate, loving, thankful, womanly
hands the whole time. His eyes came slowly back, at last, to the face
hands--to dig this wretched creature out. Got out at last, with earth
hands with a customer when the House pervaded the air. He shook in a
hand turn cold in the hand that slowly released and dropped it.
hangdog kind, that, upon my life and soul, I have been ashamed of you,
hanging about his face and hair, he would suddenly fan away to dust. The
hanging by the chain--like this."
hangman, powdered, gold-laced, pumped, and white-silk stockinged, would
happened, and after his recovery, I find it difficult to imagine any
happened here, often, and too often. Your life is in your own hands.
happen twice; whether he would have been so confident if he had seen
happily! It would be an impertinence elsewhere, but it is not so here,
Happily unconscious of the new calamity at home, Miss Pross threaded her
happiness. My thoughts, when they were wildest, never rose near the
happiness that I have known with you, and that we have before us."
happy father's face looks up in yours, when you see your own bright
happy slave and a wave of the hand on another, Monseigneur affably
hard ground close at the father's side, and watched him. The darkness
hard--impatiently--as if in some sense of having been interrupted.
hard it has grown for me, the wearer of this, to support life in myself;
"Hardly any. The weather was stormy, and the passage long and rough, and
hardly be invested, in her sight, with a more sacred character than that
hardly ever to say what is set down for them.
hardly have thought the two were so alike. Mr. Cruncher made the
hard, wiry woman before her, as Mr. Lorry had seen in the same figure a
"Hark!" he exclaimed. "Whose voice was that?"
"Hark!" said The Vengeance. "Listen, then! Who comes?"
Hark! There's the roll of them dreadful carts! You can hear that, miss?"
harm--if his door was left open."
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
harmless ways of life were changed. In the Doctor's little household, as
harm, otherwise than as it has a tendency to throw him out of work.
harms. Get a top of that there seat, and look at the crowd."
harm to-day."
harness us common dogs to carts, and drive us. They so harnessed him and
harsh nor cruel. Even when golden hair, like her own, lay in a halo on a
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
"Ha!" said Miss Pross, "it doesn't need an interpreter to explain the
"Has been here some days--three or four--I don't know how many--I can't
"Has it been your misfortune to undergo a long imprisonment, without
has made a rising reputation in Paris?'
has quite departed from my breast. I know from terrible warnings I have
Hastily written on the paper was the word "ACQUITTED."
hated his brother with a hatred as strong as mine. What did the two
hat to give his spikes free play, "he's a tradesman."
haunches. We are pursued?
haunt the places where their bodies most resorted, and Monseigneur
have another good card here, not yet enumerated. That friend and
have a precious time of it. We want wine, among the rest. Nice toasts
have a reason. State your reason. Why wouldn't you go?"
have been an exceedingly uncomfortable business--if that could have
have been better if he had died in the usual obscure routine of his
have been happy, yet his Ghost has never haunted me!"
have been the bridegroom.
have--but was not the same. Can you follow me, Lucie? Hardly, I think?
have come down, for anything that could be seen of it. In the village,
have come for a private word."
have come here to take you from it, and that we go to England to be at
have commanded whole barrels of wine; and they glided from seat to seat,
have declined him, as the most dangerous man in the world to go over.
have gained nothing by it. There is no harm at all done. I have not
have had good girls among us. I know it, and have heard my father say
have had more if it were possible. Mr. Lorry was a pleasant sight too,
have had unformed ideas of striving afresh, beginning anew, shaking off
have his work presently. He sank into the chair, and brooded over the
have hope and comfort here to-day. I think you were sent to me by
have it from Mr. Barsad's communication to a friend and brother Sheep
have it out in plain words! You hate the fellow."
have known this, night and day, since I have known you in your home."
have left them in perfect safety, and then to have quitted Paris. I have
have made some money last week instead of being counter-prayed and
have--make yourself known to these devils, and get taken to La Force. It
have marched into the prison in the night, and he is in the midst
"Have no fear! I shall soon be out of the way of harming you, and the
have not half enough as it is. We ought to have six score a day."
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
have observed her other days. I have observed her in the court, and
have parted from his lips for the first time--
have pity on me and not to exercise any power that you possess, against
have predicated that she did not often make mistakes against herself
have sent me to some fortress indefinitely."
have shot with the greatest satisfaction.
have that different order of creature dying there, and that it would
"Have the goodness to give me a little glass of old cognac, and a
have the honour of drinking her very good health. And it was from
have told; but, muskets were being distributed--so were cartridges,
have too much to do?"
have to think of the House more than ourselves."
have touched me in a different way--have affected me with something as
have written with this gaunt hand.
have yielded before his persevering purpose. While he kept himself
"Have you finished your repast, friend?" he asked, in due season.
"Have you no remembrance of the occasion?"
"Have you recognised him, monsieur?" asked Defarge in a whisper.
"Have you spoken to Lucie?"
"Have you written 'forget them'?" Carton asked.
having happened to Charles; that I had no suspicion even of his being in
having looked to the supplementary pistols that he wore in his belt,
having made a mistake in his late demonstrations; but no.
Having made, at least, this one hit, whatever it might prove to be
Having purchased a few small articles of grocery, and a measure of oil
Having said it, he passed behind the little counter, and stood with his
Having smoked his pipe out, and ruminated a little longer, he turned
having some cause to believe that I should succeed."
Having thus given his parent God speed, young Jerry seated himself on
hay--"some years ago."
hazard is not _that_, in the thick of business here, if you are true to
hazard of his life, darted out before the horses, with the petition in
He accompanied his conductor into a guard-room, smelling of common wine
Headlong, mad, and dangerous footsteps to force their way into anybody's
head might lie upon her arm; and her hair drooping over him curtained
head more out of a long squalid bag of a nightcap than in it, scrawled
head of his fair wife which had had eight weary months of imprisoned
head of the king--and now, it seemed almost in the same breath, the
head on her own breast, long, long ago. He was happy in the return he
head on!" Mr. Stryver remarked upon the peculiarity as if it would have
heads of the crowd, like a kind of lightning, no eye in the throng could
heads, where steel blades and bayonets shone in the sun. A tremendous
head to foot, the room had the odd interest for the establishment of the
head upon his breast, and raising her eyes to his, "remember how strong
head upon the pillow, and kept her secret, as the boy had done.
He advised that they should let the time go by until the regular
head: which wig, it is to be presumed, was made of hair, but which
healing office, and at peace. I see the good old man, so long their
health, Mr. Darnay; why don't you give your toast?"
he a miserable creature, of a crazed aspect, is so shattered and made
he, "and fearful to reflect upon. Yet, a doubt lurks in my mind, Miss
He and the mender of roads sat on the heap of stones looking silently at
He answered, in a low voice, "There is."
He answered, in a tone that went to every heart, "A long imprisonment."
"He answered with great contempt, 'No.'
heap of ashes that I am, into fire--a fire, however, inseparable in
heap of stones. His eyes were so often turned towards it, that he used
he appear to repeat her faltering words, when, raising his voice and
he applies himself with great ardour to the acquisition of professional
hear?"
heard a sound so sweet and dear as the sound of her compassionate voice;
heard in their stead, and would die away for good when they seemed close
heard of; but, I wished to relieve my own mind. I had kept the matter a
heard them always.
hearing and the night was quite still again, he turned to walk down the
hearing the sound of wheels. It came on briskly, and came up to the
hearse--advised by the regular driver, who was perched beside him, under
hear some disparagement attempted of this admirable servant; but that,
heart."
heart could not be as lightened of its load as she felt it ought to be.
heart grew heavier again, and grew yet heavier and heavier every day.
heart, he was with Lucie again, and she told him it was all a dream, and
heart--if it ever had been there--if it ever could be there--I could not
heart in Saint Antoine was on high-fever strain and at high-fever heat.
heart in the hundreds of thousands of breasts there, is, in some of
Heart! I will remember it as long as I live."
heart of the stone figure attached to it, was a knife. Round its hilt
heart out in prison, or wasted there through many lingering years."
hearts,--such, and such--like, the loudly echoing footsteps of Saint
heart. Such grace as was visible in it, made it the uglier, showing how
heart, these two children of the Universal Mother, else so wide apart
hear you putting any such extraordinary questions. Here is a fellow,
He asked another man. "Who is it?"
He asked her the question pointedly, and with a glance at her father.
He asked the question with some appearance of scorn.
heat, and trickled down into four rugged wells of flame. Great rents and
he ate and drank, as from an observatory or watchtower. According to the
heave a long low sigh, and hold their breath again.
heaved her up, under any circumstances. But, imbued from her childhood
Heaven."
Heaven for having bestowed her on him. By-and-bye, they went into the
Heaven from a House that had long been hateful to the suffering many.
"Heaven grant I may, Carton! But how?"
Heaven is my witness that I love her!"
"Heaven knows we don't," returned Miss Pross, "but have no fear for me.
Heaven's name why should you kneel to me!"
Heaven, what was there to dismiss! Have I had nothing more important to
heavier, Mr. Lorry passed through this anxious time. The secret was
heavily ringed, a steady face, strong features, and great composure of
heavily-splashed arm, until the wheels of the mail were no longer within
heaving to and fro, with frequent gleams of light above the billowy
heavy--cold, dirt, sickness, ignorance, and want, were the lords in
heavy drag had been adjusted to the wheel, and the carriage slid down
heavy shadow of Temple Bar. If your business necessitated your seeing
heavy-treading, unkempt figures crushed the high grass and cracked the
heavy twilight. Lucie sat by her father; Darnay sat beside her; Carton
he being unwilling to leave Lucie any longer, it was arranged that he
He bent over the child, and laid her blooming cheek against his face. He
He bent over the golden head, and put the rosy lips to his, and folded
he called to him across the way:
He carried her lightly to the door, and laid her tenderly down in a
He closed the lattice again with a fluttering heart, closed the window
He complied as to the chair, but appeared to find the speaking on less
he could give no honest account. That, if it were in the nature of
he could overlay his natural self with, issued forth to the occupation
He could walk up and down, free from distracting fancies, praying for
He described it as if he were there, and it was evident that he saw it
he detected all around him, walked from one to another. The first was
He devoted himself during the remainder of the evening to keeping a
He did not begin, but, in his indecision, met her glance. The young
He did not take the identification as a compliment; but he made the best
He doesn't know me, and is making shoes!"
he do too much?"
He drew the bottle near, poured out another glassful of brandy, and
he earned as much as he wanted.
heedful of their looks that they cast upon the multitude such glances as
heed what she observed.
He embraced her, solemnly commended her to Heaven, and humbly thanked
He felt his wrist held closer, and he stopped. The expression in the
he felt that in that sharp fire, he had slowly forged the iron which
"He first laughed at my words, and then frowned at them. He moved a
he forced his clenched right hand to remain clenched, and to cover his
He formed this speech with his lips many times before he could utter it.
He found the Doctor reading in his arm-chair at a window. The energy
He gave his arm to his daughter, and took her down-stairs to the chariot
he got up, tossed his hat on, and walked out. He turned into the Temple,
he had a coach in waiting.
he had acted imperfectly. He knew very well, that in his love for Lucie,
he had beaten himself precious, and menaced a similar conversion of all
He had been apprised that the final hour was Three, and he knew he would
He had been known in England as Charles Darnay.
he had been maligned respecting a mustard-pot, but it turned out to be
He had been talking all day, on many subjects, and with unusual
"He had before offered me money, which I had postponed taking. He now
he had closed both again, and he shivered through his frame.
he had grown to be a part, like strong root-ivy. It chanced that they
He had heard of Monseigneur, at the posting-houses, as being before him.
he had indeed been recalled to life some eighteen years before, or were
he had it--in these times, as he raised his eyes from his lonely labour,
He had laid aside his coat and waistcoat; his shirt was open at the
He had loved Lucie Manette from the hour of his danger. He had never
He had naturally repressed much, and some revulsion might have been
he had never gone away. A pause of forgetfulness, and then he had even
he had never seen a face so tenderly beautiful, as hers when it was
he had never seen since his arrival at the Barrier, but whom he directly
He had never seen the instrument that was to terminate his life. How
He had no idea that this could dwell in the thoughts of his fair young
He had no opportunity of saying, or so much as thinking, anything else,
He had not asked the prisoner to take the handy fellow as an act of
He had not returned sooner, he replied, simply because he had no means
He had put up a hand between his eyes and the light, and the very bones
he had relinquished, was the one condition--fully intelligible now--that
He had returned when he did, on the pressing and written entreaty of
he had set himself, his promise was redeemed, he had saved Charles. Let
He had since seen her, in the Section of Saint Antoine, over and over
He had still the linstock of his gun in his own hand. He made a sudden
he had stood, for a minute or two, by the side of Defarge, the shoemaker
He had suddenly started up, with his hand to his head. His manner and
He had sunk in her arms, and his face dropped on her breast: a sight so
he had supposed it destroyed with the Bastille, when he had found no
he had taken his soup, and was raising his glass of Bordeaux to his
He had time to finish these letters before the lights were put out. When
He handed in the names of two witnesses; Theophile Gabelle, and
"He happened to be the only one."
he has a heart he very, very seldom reveals, and that there are deep
"He has always kept it by him," said Mr. Lorry, with an anxious look at
"He has paid all, Monseigneur. He is dead."
he heard One struck away from him, without surprise. The hour had
he held was not his own, and as to that business charge he was a strict
He helped Mr. Lorry to wrap himself in a number of coats and cloaks,
"Heigh-ho-hum!" said Miss Pross, cheerfully repressing a sigh as she
He imitated the action of a man's being impelled forward by the
"He is accused by Saint Antoine."
He is a good child, this mender of roads, called Jacques. Give him to
"He is English."
"He is going to pay the forfeit: it will be paid in five minutes more.
"He is greatly changed?"
"'He is not here,' I said, supporting the boy, and thinking that he
he is not in strong health, and has separated sadly from a friend who is
"He is right there, Jacques," murmured Defarge, to him who had
he is, should never touch upon that question? I will not say with me,
he is the only person present in that condition. Please to go on."
he is unluckily found. Go on!"
He knew very well, that in his horror of the deed which had culminated
"He knows nothing," said Defarge; "at least nothing more than would
He laid his own upon it as he spoke.
He lapsed away, even for minutes, ringing those measured changes on his
he lay down on his straw bed, he thought he had done with this world.
He lay on his back, with his teeth set, his right hand clenched on his
held by Defarge's arm as he held by the turnkey's. Their three heads had
held him, and his head was soon upon a pike, with grass enough in the
held prisoner. It would be worse than useless now to make any inquiries,
held the letter out inquiringly; and Monseigneur looked at it, in the
held wine to their mouths that they might drink; and what with dropping
He leaned an elbow on her table, and covered his eyes with his hand. The
He left escort and escorted without saying a word, however, and went
He left Jerry with them, as a figure to fill a doorway that would bear
"He lies!" cried the smith. "He is a traitor since the decree. His life
He lies here, in this corner of the carriage. He, too, is pointed out.
he lived by giving instruction in the French language and literature.
He looked abstractedly from one to another, and said, in a lower voice,
He looked at no one present, and no one now looked at him; not even
He looked at them, and saw in them, without knowing it, the slow
He looked back over his shoulder, and beckoned them to enter. Mr. Lorry
He looked down at the floor on either side of him in the old manner,
He looked like his illustration, as he raised his eyes to Mr. Lorry's
He looked to the spot where Defarge the vendor of wine had stood, a
He looks into the second: not there. He already asks himself, "Has he
He lowered the window, and looked out at the rising sun. There was a
helped him so far to arouse the rocking figure before the dying embers,
helpful now in restoring the dearest part of herself to her; by the aid
help me to see him if you can?"
He made all manner of gestures while he spoke, as if in incidental
He made no effort to say why not, and said not a word more. But, Mr.
"He may not have known of it beforehand," said Mr. Lorry.
he more than once misdoubted his mind being in confusion, and that he
he mounted. Sessions and Old Bailey had now to summon their favourite,
He moved from end to end of his voluptuous bedroom, looking again at the
He murmured for answer: "True. I forget what you were accused of?"
"He must take his chance," said Madame Defarge. "No, I cannot spare
"Hem! Well," returned Mr. Cruncher, going on again, and lifting off his
he never would have got away at all but for that sham. Though how this
He obeyed, in the old mechanically submissive manner, without pausing in
He occupied rooms in the Bank, in his fidelity to the House of which
He offered his hand; but his eyes did not go with it.
He opened his mouth as wide as he could, and shut it with a sounding
He opened it in the light of the coach-lamp on that side, and
he ought to have been perfect by that time, seeing that it had been
"'He! Proud as these nobles are, he is afraid to see me. Where is the
He put her hand to his lips, and moved towards the door.
her.
her affection, and with Sydney's friendly reassurances, adequately to
Heralded by a courier in advance, and by the cracking of his postilions'
heralded the sublime appearance by announcing that arrangements were
her, and asked that man to lend her to him--for what are husbands among
her--and both highly commended it. Defarge, a weak minority, interposed
her, and yet no Hundreds of people. Mr. Carton had lounged in, but he
her appearance so that it should attract no special notice in the
her arm as she worked. She was in a front row, by the side of a man whom
her breast. Among the echoes then, there would arise the sound of
her breathing; and in moving the scarf aside, the embroidery in the
"Her breathing was so difficult to trace, that I carefully tried the
her child and Miss Pross wept over her.
her child and Miss Pross with her; but, it never occurred to him to be
her child in his arms, as He took the child of old, and made it a sacred
her condition to be that of one in whom the first expectations of being
her dear sake. We thank you with all our hearts, and all our love and
here."
"Here.
"Here."
Here again: Mr. Lorry's inquiries into Miss Pross's personal history had
here, and, carefully feeling in the pockets of the coat he carried over
here, and in virtue of it I stand before you. I come from her--your
here, and straight through the street, and past the fountain--"
Here, an excited woman screeched from the crowd: "You were one of the
here are the tumbrils! And Evremonde will be despatched in a wink, and
he reasoned with himself that it could have no reference to the merits
He recovered himself almost instantly. Rain was really falling in large
He recovered himself so quickly, however, that Mr. Lorry had doubts of
"Here he is," said the Doctor, entering the dark room at the moment.
here in his former thoughtful manner, "that one might be listened to,
"Here, in Paris?"
"Here is a visitor."
"--Here is my husband!" said Madame Defarge.
"He remains up there in his iron cage some days. The village looks
Here, Mr. Lorry became aware, from where he sat, of a most remarkable
Here, Mr. Lorry perceived the reflection on the wall to elongate, and
He repeated what he had already said.
here. Remember! I may denounce you if I think proper, and I can swear my
"Here's a man of business--a man of years--a man of experience--_in_
here. She had become familiar to me, when a gracious God restored
"Here, sir! It's a fight to get back again. Here I am, sir!"
He resorted to his pint of wine for consolation, drank it all in a few
heresy about George Washington.
"Here they are!" said Miss Pross, rising to break up the conference;
here to realise. Let me carry through the rest of my misdirected life,
her, every day shared the fate from which he had been clutched, that her
her eyes lovingly to him as he stood beside her, "was much fatigued
Her father answered, with a cheerful firmness of conviction he could
her father, by impressing him through every tender means she could think
Her father, cheering her, showed a compassionate superiority to this
Her father considered a little before he answered:
her father had attached to their betrothal, and was the one promise he
Her father had followed her, and would have fallen on his knees to both
Her father sat silent, with his face bent down. His breathing was a
her father's breast, he was the first to see it, and to say audibly:
Her father's only answer was to draw his hands through his white hair,
her glance as a small dog would have done, retreated among his wood, and
Her golden hair, which she wore in long curls, had been hurriedly pushed
her greatest desire was, to help that sister. I could tell her nothing
her hand in one of the ropes with which he was tied--The Vengeance and
her hands.
her hand towards the fatal spot, "where they reserve my chair and my
her head like all the forty Furies at once, was tearing from house to
her husband, and her father, and herself, and her old directress and
her husband in the dark window. It was a hot, wild night, and they were
Her husband saw her (so she learned from her father) it might be once in
"Her husband's destiny," said Madame Defarge, with her usual composure,
Her husband smoked at his door, looking after her with admiration. "A
her. I cry with vexation and disappointment!"
her in his arms. If one forlorn wanderer then pacing the dark streets,
her in my arms; it stood between the little grated window and the door.
Her look so discomposed him that he stopped, wandered, and began anew:
her money and left her!
Her name and family?
her own, checked the serving man in every possible way, and finally
her possessing such a thing.
her prattling words. Let greater echoes resound as they would, the young
her prey, and as such had no right to live. To appeal to her, was made
her room. Before he went away, he breathed a blessing towards it, and a
her satisfaction to those behind them, and those again explaining to
herself down, and praying that the bread-and-butter may be snatched out
herself, you would have no duty but to sacrifice her. Listen to what is
her sides with sashes and handkerchiefs. I noticed that these bonds were
her starved grocer, and the drum was at rest. The drum's was the
her steps."
her--such as the world will do well never to breed again. All the women
her taking so much trouble for her--which last she only dared to do
her teeth with a toothpick. Thus engaged, with her right elbow supported
her that it was her husband's last arrangement. Tell her that more
He rubbed his eyes and roused himself; but he doubted, when he had
her unavailing search for your father, she left you, at two years old,
Her uncertainty lasted but a moment; she hurried back, and tapped at
her voice, and he presently came out to her, and they walked up and down
her waist, "I hear them moving in the next room, and Miss Pross and
her waiting for him with the old pretty lifting of the forehead strongly
Her with a child upon her bosom, who bears my name. I see her father,
her. You have loved yourself; let your old love speak for me!"
He said, "Farewell!" said a last "God bless you!" and left her.
he said, filling his new goblet.
He said it bitterly, and filled up his glass again: which was a large
he said: "Removed to the Conciergerie, and summoned for to-morrow?"
He sat down in a chair on the hearth, over against Mr. Lorry. When they
He sat, with his hands in his pockets and his legs stretched out before
He seemed wilfully to mistake the word she had repeated, when he added,
he sees one. Show him that shoe you are working at. Take it, monsieur."
He set down his glass untouched. "This is Mam'selle!" said he.
He shook his head.
he shook in his wooden shoes whenever his eye lighted on her. For, he
he should observe any symptoms of her saying Grace. He was brushed
He slowly shook the shadow off, and turned to her.
He smiled at her unconscious admission that she would have been unhappy
he sold at this time. A sour wine, moreover, or a souring, for its
he sometimes furtively looked up without being asked. In that, there
he sought. And that aid was his own.
He spoke with the diffidence of a man who knew how slight a thing
He stared at her with a fearful look, and after a while his lips began
he stepped over the way.
He still had his wig and gown on, and he said, squaring himself at his
he stood on his own particular perch behind the mail, beating his feet,
He stooped a little, and with his tattered blue cap pointed under the
he stooped over them, after repeated blowings of his nose, "all could be
He stopped in the act of swinging himself out of his saddle, and,
He stopped. There was a heavy lumbering of wheels within hearing. They
He stuck the paper on a file, in an ill-humour, and Charles Darnay
He studied much, slept little, sustained a great deal of fatigue with
he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live: and
He, therefore, made haste to say:
He threw out a gold coin for the valet to pick up, and all the heads
he told him this, very strongly, with the hope of rousing him from any
"He told me that he was travelling on business of a delicate and
He took her hair into his hand again, and looked closely at it. "It is
He took out a blackened pipe, filled it, lighted it with flint and
He took out his purse.
He took the lamp in his hand, crossed the two intervening outer rooms,
"He tried to explain to me how that quarrel had arisen, and he said
He turned himself sideways to the carriage, and leaned back, with his
he turned into the quiet corner in Soho, bent on seeking an opportunity
He turned towards him in his chair, but did not look at him, or
He unshaded his face after a little while, and spoke steadily.
he vaguely and unhappily wandered there, when wine had brought no
he vaunted, he might have found _that_ shutting out the sky in a new
He waited and waited, and the clock struck twelve; but Doctor Manette
He walked to and fro, with thoughts very busy, until it was time to
"He was."
he was a false traitor to our serene, illustrious, excellent, and so
He was a man of about sixty, handsomely dressed, haughty in manner, and
he was, and commiserated by that agitated face as he was? Come on, and
He was an inquisitive fellow, and sometimes when she had quite forgotten
He was arrested by the quick arrival of another man, for whom the rest
He was a strongly made man with dark curling hair, from forty-five
He was at a loss how to answer, until he remembered having spoken of a
he was did, that he was never safe; that flight was impossible; that
He was drawing his hand from his breast; the prisoner chancing to look
He was driven on, and other carriages came whirling by in quick
he was free, were questions which no sagacity could have solved. They
He was not long in discovering that it was worse than useless to speak
He was saying the affectionate word, however, with a far more grudging
He was shown up-stairs, and found Lucie at her work, alone. She had
"He was signalling with her when I saw her," argued Madame Defarge; "I
he was so composedly himself, that Mr. Lorry determined to have the aid
He was soon over, and then the second fisherman got over, and then the
He was so unlike what he had ever shown himself to be, and it was so
He was stayed by the Doctor's putting out his hand to stop him. When he
he was tied fast under the shadow of the axe; and that in spite of
He was to be told (said Monseigneur) that supper awaited him then and
he was under to go to Paris, and showing her, at length, the reasons
He watched his opportunity of taking Darnay aside into a window, and of
he went astray, and, with another deep sigh, fell to work at his
he were to be released, he could not hope to leave the city, Mr. Lorry
"He will start upon his journey to-morrow night."
"He would count as one head," observed Jacques Three, in a low voice.
he would leave her for a moment to her own reflections. The devoutest
He would not have stopped then, for anything less necessary than breath,
He wrote a long letter to Lucie, showing her that he had known nothing
"Hey?" cried the blatant Stryver. "Did he though? Is that the sort of
"Hey!" cried the mender of roads, reflectively; "that's true."
hidden under almost as many wrappers from the eyes of the mind, as from
hideous countenances were all bloody and sweaty, and all awry with
hideous doors of dark dens and cages, down cavernous flights of steps,
hideous scene of action, with the skill of a man accustomed to make his
hid his confusion over the handle of his saw.
high it was from the ground, how many steps it had, where he would be
highly fraught with nothing. Already, the mender of roads had penetrated
highly to its own satisfaction.
high noontide, when two dusty men passed through his streets and under
high. The likeness passed away, like a breath along the surface of
highway robberies, took place in the capital itself every night;
highways, dank with the marshy moisture of many low grounds, sprinkled
highway such morsels of bread as might serve for patches to hold his
hill.
hill, making paper money and spending it. Under the guidance of her
hill. Whenever the leader made this rattle, the passenger started, as a
hill, with a cinderous smell, in a cloud of dust, the red glow departed
him!
him?"
him.
him."
him, almost at the last. "Poor Carton! Kiss him for me!"
him, and all quite in vain;--then the history of your father would have
him, and asked what it was.
him. "And take a pipe with you!"
him, and the other pressed upon it. She had drawn close to him, in her
him as he showed himself.
him, at the--" He dropped his voice, there was a flutter among the
him, a white-haired man sat on a low bench, stooping forward and very
him before he left the place, condemned to die within twenty-four
him. But, he had not yet spoken to her on the subject; the assassination
him, but it's wery hard to spile him, sir."
him by touching his hat, and saying, with an engaging smile, "Good day,
him down into it, and stood over him, barefoot.
him down the stairs, the day was coldly looking in through its grimy
him, for it was not to be expected that anybody should be, under any
him from the light.
him good wishes and encouragement. He turned at the grated door, to
him had pressed and passed the inquiry on to the nearest attendant, and
him, he had been brought to the pointed comparison of himself with the
him, he had got the better of it. He walked up and down, softly
him. I glanced about me, and saw that the hay and straw were trampled
him in gazing at the prison roof and grates, and in lifting her heart
him in our cottage--our dog-hut, as that man would call it. She had not
him in so violent a tremble: "pray control your agitation--a matter of
him--is gone; the knitting-women count Twenty-Two.
him killed with grass in his mouth. Once, he went aloft, and the rope
him, looking at the fire.
"Him, man, with whom I have exchanged. You go out at the gate by which
him more scantily than ever; and often when he had thrown himself upon
him. Next followed the thought that much of the future peace of mind
him. "Oh, the men, the men!"
him on, faster and faster, more and more steadily, to the terrible
him. On their reaching the courtyard he instinctively altered his
him out of it--"as such I will appeal to Doctor Manette, to break up
him out of Madame Defarge's head) of having his small individual fears
him out, they carried him on. Reddening the snowy streets with the
him, presided in this dainty dress. And who among the company at
himself about, that he might appear, before the hour of closing, on his
himself and for them.
himself appeared, from overlooking a painter whom Doctor Manette had
himself--as I once heard him publicly relate in a striking manner. It is
himself as they could be, they never looked towards him. They seemed to
himself as to make himself one?"
himself, fumbled with his cap, and made a bow.
himself. "He's hoarser than suits me, is Jerry.")
himself in Mr. Lorry's room again, where he found the old gentleman
himself inside out, and sat on door-steps and window-ledges, and came
himself in Soho, and there declare his noble mind.
himself in the breast with his blue cap. What did all this portend,
himself into two.
himself: "Jerry, you honest tradesman, there's hopes wot that boy will
himself than he has ever been, and even speaks of himself with a kind
himself that his sweet temper was soured, and that he grumbled, "but I
himself that the aspect of affairs was very alarming. An ominous crowd
himself to his boot-cleaning and his general preparation for business.
himself to utter a word upon the topic that oppresses him."
himself up inside, keep the flint and steel sparks well off the straw,
himself, went out to the place of trial.
him. She might think it was contrived, in case of the worse, to convey
him sideways with a stronger concentration of keenness, closeness,
him that."
him that night, he might have been at a loss to claim his own from
him then; it is but a moment." It was silently acquiesced in, and they
him. The prisoner obeyed, and a guard of two armed patriots attended
him through the chinks in the wall.
him thus into the courtyard of the building where he lived. Her father
him to bring it down one day."
him to get up, and steep his towels anew. From these pilgrimages to the
him, to have the days of his imprisonment recalled. He had shown
him, told them afterwards, and told her grandchildren when she was a
him), to take Ladybird's affections away from me."
him to you in the best health and in the happiest frame. Now, I hear
him under the skirts of his riding-coat, and he stood at Mr. Cruncher's
him vacantly.
him, when Mr. Lorry's feet were arrested on the step by his asking,
him--which is a large supposition; for what is his life, or any man's
him within the influence of the Loadstone Rock, and it was drawing him
him! With these cries, numbers of the women, lashed into blind frenzy,
him! You are engaged at three o'clock; you are going to see the batch of
him yourself in the carriage, show him yourself to Mr. Lorry, tell him
his--"
his account; and then recrossed the road and entered the wine-shop.
his affairs, both private and public; and he had, as to both classes of
his arm on the back of her chair, it was very agreeable to trace the
his arms, he said to her:
his back.
his back, with his rusty hands under his head for a pillow, his son lay
his being there had any connection with anything below the surface, that
His bloated gaoler, who wore spectacles to read with, glanced over them
his boot was still upon the hot embers of the flaming log, when it had
his breakfast.
his breakfast rather than ate it, growling over it like any four-footed
his breast when he fell asleep.
his bridle, the end of which one of the patriots kept girded round his
his business eye. The arm of the golden giant in the hall was not more
his chair, and looked up for the first time since the beginning of the
his chateau.
his chin, pull his wig at the ears, or point what he said, stood looking
his clothes, while travelling, he had seen similar lists to these in the
his coat, and took another paper from it, "that is the certificate which
His cold white head mingled with her radiant hair, which warmed and
His collected and calm manner could not prevent her blood from running
His constraint was so manifest, and it was so manifest, too, that it
his country--he submitted before the word emigrant in the present
His cry was so like a cry of actual pain, that it rang in Charles
His daughter had one of her hands drawn through his arm, as she sat by
his daughter, more times than one. I have observed her to-day, and I
his daughter's drawing her arm through his, and took--and kept--her hand
his devouring hunger far away.
his dinner as he had awaited his breakfast, his mind was busily digging,
his door and came running back frightened, crying to herself, with her
his door, and softly called to him. The noise ceased at the sound of
his duty. On the opposite side of the courtyard, under a colonnade,
his ear, and that she seemed to be his wife; but, what he most noticed
his ears and looked back, without contradicting.
his escutcheon if his chocolate had been ignobly waited on by only three
his eyes looking around, and his lips trembling; his daughter drew
his eyes rested on a short, slight, pretty figure, a quantity of golden
his face and thanks him.
His face had become frozen, as it were, in a very curious look at
his face in the interchange of the first few common-places, she observed
his fingers ever wandering over and over those fine nerves, with a
his fingers perpetually hovering about his lips, whose appearance
his fixed look when he had ceased to speak, that Darnay felt his own
his forefathers; she saw, not him, but them. It was nothing to her, that
his friend now sixty-two years of age, a misgiving arose within him that
his friend. "Now, would it not be better that he should let it go?"
his getting into the house again, for it was full of lodgers, and the
his glass. "Are you turned in a pleasant direction?"
"His goods," said Mr. Cruncher, after turning it over in his mind, "is a
His haggard eyes turned to Defarge as if he would have transferred the
his hair, and tied it with the ribbon the prisoner had worn. Then, he
his hand."
his hand, and his eyes intent on the road-mender; Jacques Three, equally
his hand. Both resorted to the drinking-table without stint, but each in
his hand in his breast, looked down.
his hands in his waistband, glancing round from the sofa where he lay on
His hands released her as he uttered this cry, and went up to his white
his having been a mere boy in the Doctor's service, and of the release,
His head and throat were bare, and, as he spoke with a helpless look
His head hanging over--like this!"
his head or lose it, for any interest I have in him; it is all one to
his head over him as he reviewed him in the present and the past, "the
his hearers. Mr. Lorry and Charles Darnay were left alone at the desk,
his hearing as ever spoken words had been in his life--when the weary
his, he was taken with that peculiar kind of short cough requiring the
his inner room, his sanctuary of sanctuaries, the Holiest of Holiests to
His judges sat upon the Bench in feathered hats; but the rough red cap
his knees; now, on his feet; now, on his back; dragged, and struck at,
his last chance of life. Besides that all secret men are men soon
his letter through a trap in it. For, people then paid to see the play
His linen, though not of a fineness in accordance with his stockings,
his liver, or whether his general health had been previously at all
his long and unwholesome confinement he was in danger of fainting from
his look quite terrified them all.
his Majesty's forces, and of their disposition and preparation, both by
his manner was less satisfied than his words.) "A matter of business.
His manner was so fervent and inspiring, that Mr. Lorry caught the
his medical adviser--a distinguished surgeon--on his way back.
His message perplexed his mind to that degree that he was fain, several
his mind. She was the golden thread that united him to a Past beyond his
his mind, the prisoner walked faster and faster, obstinately counting
his mind, which was enough to carry into a dreary prison courtyard, he
his modicum of hard and bitter bread to such extent as he could, with
his mother; don't blow upon that boy's father--do not do it, sir--and
his musket very recklessly, Charles Darnay did not allow the restraint
his neck; and after embracing the ever zealous and faithful Pross who
his not being appreciated: of his being so little wanted in France, as
his old prison. She hurries to him, and they go on together, walking up
his opportunity, and smote the young gentleman on the ear.
his outer coat; "But you," said Mr. Lorry, reverting to the theme, "you
his own doom as certainly as the prisoner's, and even died before him.
his own hands. A small, dim, crooked shop, kept in a tortuous, up-hill
his own little shrewd doubts to solve, and knew how the ways of the
his own sufferings, insults, and wrongs! Armed men and women flocked out
his pain so much, by substituting the perplexity of the fingers for
his paper), and to let it fall with a rattle on the ledge before her, as
his pocket the letter I had written, showed it me, burnt it in the light
his real presence and trembled more.
His removal, to make way for other accused persons who were to be tried,
his renunciation of his social place, though by no means new to his own
His resolution was made. He must go to Paris.
his right hand raised, 'in the days when all these things are to be
his road and saw its end.
his room with a chopper, saw, chisel, and hammer, attended by Miss Pross
His scientific knowledge, and his vigilance and skill in conducting
His shirt-sleeves were rolled up, too, and his brown arms were bare to
his shoulder, took out a key.
his sight. Thenceforth, to secure his good will, she always spoke to him
his sinking heart, as he left all that was dear on earth behind him, and
His son obeyed, and the crowd approached; they were bawling and hissing
His streaming white hair, his remarkable face, and the impetuous
his strength with a good plain dinner and good wine: while Carton sat
his swinging lamps: of whom, one was Monsieur Defarge: the other a
his toilet, with a suppressed cry of "You are going to flop, mother.
His tone lingered in the air, almost like the tone of a musical
his tools mechanically, and, one would have said, to very poor account.
His touch still lingered on her father's hand. Answering the touch for a
his travelling carriage at the posting-house gate. It was hard by the
his turban off and threw it into the basin in which he had steeped it at
his utmost tergiversation and treachery in furtherance of the reigning
_his_ vassal. Then, I tracked the brother here, and last night climbed
his waistband, looking at the fire, or occasionally flirting with some
his wake, like a boat towed astern. As the boat so favoured is usually
His way taking him past Tellson's, and he both banking at Tellson's and
his way--tend to his own power and pocket. Of his pleasures, general and
his weaknesses, and he is so weak as to relent towards this Doctor."
His wife explained that she had merely "asked a blessing."
his wife was to be made a widow and his daughter an orphan; that was
his wig, and giving no very gracious consent, the likeness became
his wild hair. This done, he went on direct to Defarge's, and went in.
his work.
his work, and that his hands had never been so nimble and expert, as in
his wrists were so much more steady than they had been, that she
His yellow rags of shirt lay open at the throat, and showed his body
his young companion's agitation, which became greater every instant, Mr.
hitting a tune out of his teeth with it, which probably gave him the
hoarsely and unexpectedly interposed with the following singular
hold, as their capricious judgment or fancy deemed best for the dawning
"Hold!" cried Defarge, reddening a little as if he felt charged with
hold his peace.
holding about half a gallon. After standing with the bridle over his
holding his breath. Crouching down again in a corner there, and looking
"Hold!" said Monsieur the Marquis. "Hold the horses! Who threw that?"
"Hold the light higher!" he said, wrathfully, to the turnkey. "Look
"Hold then! True!" muttered her husband. "Gentlemen--my wife!"
hollow of a hand before it, which is seldom, if ever, known to be an
hollow of the right, and then passed a hand across his bearded chin, and
home and friends in such a tone before lying down to die.
home, and the Stryver principal opened the door. He had his slippers on,
home made such a home by you, has stirred old shadows that I thought had
honest men. The lowest, cruelest, and worst populace of a city, never
honest prayer than he did in this distrust of his wife. It was as if a
honest tradesman, and not to occupy your female mind with calculations
honest tradesman, succeed in providing a jinte of meat or two, none
honoured father, and implore his pardon for having never for his sake
honoured parent in view. The honoured parent steering Northward, had not
honouring your husband to dishonour his business? Is it obeying your
honour of giving you welcome to La Force, and of condoling with you
hook Mr. Lorry into the discussion, "that your respect for my sister--"
"Hooray, father! Here's an early job to begin with!"
"Hooroar, father!" cried Young Jerry.
hoped.
hopeless by her having no sense of pity, even for herself. If she had
hopeless mass of decomposition so engendered, would have polluted
hope so. Respectin' any present use o' this here blessed old head o'
hope. The horrible massacre, days and nights long, which, within a few
hope with all my heart as Mrs. Cruncher may be a flopping at the present
horizontal lines of black and stone colour.
horrible sentence--had there been a chance of any one of its savage
horrible smell of foul sleep in it. Extraordinary how soon the noisome
horsehair, and loaded with heavy dark tables. These had been oiled and
horse into the yard, the escort rode in close upon his horse's flanks,
horsemen abreast of that cart, frequently point out one man in it with
horses from coming here, and were to wait somewhere for me; wouldn't
horses had three times already come to a stop, besides once drawing the
horses, he would have encountered to delay him, though the fallen and
horses ready, so that they may be in starting trim at two o'clock in the
hospital procession of negro cupids. As if _they_ had any help for
hot ashes, at which she had been trying to soften the pain in her own
hot upon it as that comes to; I say yes, and I shall expect you to look
hour or so of the time of closing.
hour or two hence, and the low companions and low habits that I scorn
hours, he had plenty of shouting and weeping and sentimental company,
hours. The first of them told him so, with the customary prison sign
hours. Then, the grey water of both began to be ghostly in the light,
house.
house, a black muffler was drawn tightly over my mouth from behind, and
house, and extended great liberality to old customers who had fallen
house but dens of thieves, the huts of millions of starving peasants!
house had been first sequestrated, and then confiscated. For, all
House here to our House there, who knows the city and the business, of
household as exactly as if her husband had been there. Everything had
house of Doctor Manette. He had been there often, during a whole year,
house, rousing the women.
houses, and in the light and warmth of the sun fell asleep on the
houses, he threw himself down in his clothes on a neglected bed, and its
Houses in twos and threes pass by us, solitary farms, ruinous buildings,
house, summoned him to come forth for personal conference. Whereupon,
house, the name of every inmate must be legibly inscribed in letters
"How?"
How came he to have fallen asleep, in his clothes, on the sofa in Doctor
"How can you say that? Wouldn't She weep for you? Wouldn't her child?"
how could my happiness be perfect, while yours was incomplete?"
"How did it show itself? I infer," glancing at his hands again, "in the
"How do I know!"
"How do you do?" inquired that lady then--sharply, and yet as if to
"How do you know it?"
"How dreadfully unkind in a brother nothing has ever turned my love away
however."
"However, I am not going," said Charles Darnay, with a smile. "It is
however, that the cognac was flattered, and took up her knitting. The
however; you don't know what it may come to. Good night!"
"How goes it, Jacques?"
"How goes it, Jacques?" said one of these three to Monsieur Defarge. "Is
"How goes the Republic?"
"'How has this been done, monsieur?' said I.
"How have I done what I have done?" said Stryver; "how do I do what I
how he timed the executioner, Carton was so sensible of a rising desire
"How I admire the gallantry of your youthful spirit, Mr. Lorry."
"How is the young lady?"
"Ho! Within the carriage there. Speak then!"
How it would be a weakness in the government to break down in this
howling, and all staring and glaring with beastly excitement and want of
"How long," demanded madame, composedly, "does it take to make and store
"'How long,' I asked, 'has this lasted?'
"How long would you keep me in town?"
"How many did they say?"
"How many more!"
"How many were with him?"
how mistaken you are, and what an unfounded assumption yours is, I will
"How much?"
how, nevertheless, it rested upon nothing, save that vile and infamous
"How say you, Jacques?" demanded Number One. "To be registered?"
how the Defarges had not made the paper public, with the other captured
"How, then?" cried madame, contemptuously. "The other world?"
"How, then?" said one of them, contemplating the fallen figure. "So
"How, then! What is it? Always petitions!"
how used the people were to the spectacle of prisoners passing along the
"How was this?--_Was it you_?"
http://gutenberg.org/license).
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
     http://www.gutenberg.org
        http://www.gutenberg.org/9/98/
huge satisfaction, and so arrived circuitously at the understanding that
humanity from whose ragged pockets they had come.
humanity out of shape once more, under similar hammers, and it will
human race. It superseded the Cross. Models of it were worn on breasts
human stew that had been boiling there all day, was straining off, when
human sympathy.
humility, "that you accompany Miss Manette to France?"
"Humph! I see one thing," said Carton. "I hold another card, Mr. Barsad.
hundred and eighty-nine. Now, Heaven defeat the fancy of Lucie Darnay,
hundred miles away.
Hundreds of people came to see the sights, and Mr. Lorry looked in vain
hundreds pass away so.
"Hundreds," said Miss Pross.
hundred ways.
hungered, asked: "Is this rustic to be sent back soon? I hope so. He is
hurry."
"Hurry, hurry!"
husband, and the mercies of these people--"
husband and wife remained exactly as he had left them, lest he should
husband's head next day. Every day, through the stony streets, the
husband's name should be proscribed under your hand at this moment, by
husband to disobey him on the wital subject of his business?"
husband too. When I handed her down to the door, there was a child, a
"Hush, dear! Again?" Lucie remonstrated.
"Hush, dear! Pray, pray, be cautious!" cried Lucie.
"Hush, hush!" the Spy entreats him, timidly.
"Hush! Yes, my poor sister; to the last."
husky tones, while fastening the door:
I added no mention of it to my letter. I sealed my letter, and, not
"I, Alexandre Manette, unfortunate physician, native of Beauvais, and
I also observed that they both looked of about my own age, or rather
"I always am sound; am I not?"
"I always observed that their pride bitterly resented the younger
"I am."
"I am a Briton," said Miss Pross, "I am desperate. I don't care an
"I am accustomed to it."
"'I am a doctor, my poor fellow,' said I. 'Let me examine it.'
"I am afraid of it," she answered, shuddering.
"I am again at work upon the hill-side, and the sun is again about to
"I am a little tired," her husband acknowledged.
"I am an old student here."
I am a tenderer sort of fellow than _you_."
"I am conscious of nothing; there can be nothing here. Take up the pen
"I am cool now," said Monsieur the Marquis, "and may go to bed."
"I am deeply sorry to have been the cause of it. Could you tell her so
"I am doubtful," said Mr. Cruncher, hesitating and shaking his head,
I am drunk?"
"I am frightfully confused regarding time and place; but I am so far
"I am glad of that. She has such a strong attachment to you and reliance
"I am glad you have so much of the Englishman in you, though I wish you
"I am going now, directly."
"I am going," said Mr. Stryver, leaning his arms confidentially on the
"I am going to see his Ghost! It will be his Ghost--not him!"
"I am going to tell you how. It will depend on you, and it could depend
"I am going to tell you. The door-keeper will pass the note to Mr.
"I am growing more and more unequal to the task I have set myself. It is
"I am he. Necessarily, being the last."
"I am highly gratified," said Mr. Lorry, "though, upon my honour, I
"I am in my seventy-eighth year."
"I am not afraid to die, Citizen Evremonde, but I have done nothing. I
I am not a scholar."
"I am not a shoemaker by trade? No, I was not a shoemaker by trade. I-I
"I am not at all alarmed. Earnestness in you, is anything but alarming
"I am not crying," said Miss Pross; "_you_ are."
"I am not frightened for myself, my father. But when I think of my
"I am not going to guess, at five o'clock in the morning, with my brains
"I am not thankless, I hope, but that dreadful woman seems to throw a
"I am not to be buried there, prejudged, and without any means of
"I am obliged to them for their interest in the matter," he answered,
"I am pretty well, I thank you," answered Mr. Lorry, with meekness; "how
"I am quite glad you are at home; for these hurries and forebodings by
"I am quite sure, Mr. Cruncher," returned Miss Pross, "that you
"I am saying nothing."
"I am so distracted with fear and hope for our precious creatures," said
"I am sometimes."
"I am sure of it."
"I am sure of it. Charles Darnay, mysteries arise out of close love, as
"I am thankful!" repeated the Doctor, bending his head with reverence.
"I am that child, I hope, my father. O my dear, my dear, will you bless
"I am the resurrection and the life, saith the Lord: he that believeth
"I am the Resurrection and the Life, saith the Lord: he that believeth
"I am weary, weary, weary--worn down by misery. I cannot read what I
"I asked leave to teach myself, and I got it with much difficulty after
"I ask none, sir. But I have thought it possible that you might have it
"I ask your pardon," said the Doctor, in a subdued tone, after some
"I assure you," returned Mr. Stryver, in the friendliest way, "that I
I, as two formal folks of business, are anxious not to lose the final
"_I_ began it, Miss Pross?"
"I began to think," said Mr. Lorry, pushing his brown wig back, "that
"I begin to think I _am_ faint."
"I believe it," answered her father, mournfully. "I have thought so
"I believe it. I do you justice; I believe it."
"I believe it is something of that sort," said Mr. Cruncher.
"I believe," returned Doctor Manette, "that there had been a strong and
"I believe," said the spy, dropping his soft voice to a tone
"I believe so."
"I believe that if you were not in disgrace with the Court, and had not
"I bring you a request from her."
"I call myself the Samson of the firewood guillotine. See here again!
"I can bear anything but the uncertainty you leave me in at this
"I can bear it, dear Charles. I am supported from above: don't suffer
"I can buy pen, ink, and paper?"
"I can hear," said Miss Pross, seeing that he spoke to her, "nothing. O,
"I cannot find it," said he, "and I must have it. Where is it?"
"I cannot trust my husband in this matter. Not only do I feel, since
"I cannot undertake to say that he was."
"I can pass in and out when I choose."
I can say. There is no help for you in any action on your part to-night;
"I can't say."
"I can't say that I mean to. I suppose so. I don't know."
"I certainly have seen that."
"I choose them as real men, of my name--Jacques is my name--to whom the
"I come direct."
"I communicate to him that secret. I smite this bosom with these two
I confide this paper, in the writing of Doctor Manette, to the hands of
"'I congratulate you, my brother,' were his words as he turned round.
"I could do nothing but comply, and I entered it in silence. They both
"I could not believe it to be you. I can scarcely believe it now. You
"I could not better testify my respect for your sister than by finally
I couldn't see it."
I could so rely for right guidance, as on you. Tell me, how does this
I dare say."
"I dare say not," rejoined Stryver, nodding his head in a smoothing and
I'd catch hold of your throat and choke you for half a guinea."
identification. How did you come by it? When did it strike you?"
identified he is with his son-in-law."
"I devote you," said this person, stopping at the last door on his way,
"I did?"
"I did."
"I did, Joe."
"I did so, raising the boy's head against my knee. But, invested for the
idleness, to run to the spot and drink the wine. The rough, irregular
"I do."
"I do ask it. Accept my cordial thanks."
"I do it because it's politic; I do it on principle. And look at me! I
I do it. In the days when all these things are to be answered for,
"'I do not address her brother?'
"I do not doubt it," answered Mr. Lorry. "Say on."
"I do not quite understand," returned the uncle, sipping his coffee.
"I do not show the soldiers that I recognise the tall man; he does not
"I do not think so. I do not think," said Doctor Manette with the
"I do not understand the meaning of the term, but I have heard them say
"I do not understand you."
"'I do not want it examined,' he answered; 'let it be.'
"I don't feel disposed to say much. Who is she?"
"I don't gainsay it. What has roughened your temper? Put some punch to
"I don't hear it."
"I don't hear you," said Miss Pross. "What do you say?"
"I don't know; I prefer not to do so. Now, take this paper that Doctor
"I don't know, Mr. Darnay; I told you it was a foolish fancy, but you
"_I_ don't know," returned the man, clapping his hands to his mouth
"_I_ don't know," said the man. "Spies! Yaha! Tst! Spies!"
"I don't know that you 'never will.'"
("I don't like Jerry's voice, if it is Jerry," growled the guard to
"I don't mean that. I mean I am a man of more--more--"
"I don't suppose anything about it but what Ladybird tells me."
"I don't think I do like, if I may speak my mind. I am not fit to be
"_I_ don't think I do," said Carton. "I begin to have a very good
"I don't understand you," said Mr. Lorry.
"I don't want dozens of people who are not at all worthy of Ladybird, to
"I don't wonder at it; it's not so long since you were pretty far
"I do," said Miss Pross.
"I do seek that."
"I do so, father, and I send him my Soul with it!"
"I doubt, sir," returned the nephew, "whether, if it had carried me to
I doubt you must have been a solitary prisoner to understand these
"I entreat you to observe that I have come here voluntarily, in response
"I entreat you to tell me more, sir."
if anybody acquainted with it could have believed in such a miraculous
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
"If any one of these men, or all of these men, were disposed to spare
if business imposes its restraints and its silences and impediments, Mr.
"I fear not yet. It would be dangerous for Charles yet."
"I fear you are not well, Mr. Carton!"
"I feel," said Miss Pross, "as if there had been a flash and a crash,
if he came attended by the Furies, Monsieur the Marquis drew up in
"If he's found Guilty, you mean to say?" Jerry added, by way of proviso.
"If I could hope _that_, my father!--"
"If I don't, you'll have short commons, to-morrow," returned that
"If I had never seen Charles, my father, I should have been quite happy
if I knew how.
"If I may ride with you, Citizen Evremonde, will you let me hold your
"If I might touch him! If I might embrace him once! O, good citizens, if
I first came, I had better not see her. I can put my hand out, to do any
"If it ever becomes mine, it shall be put into some hands better
"'If it had been otherwise;'" Carton's hand was again watchfully and
If it had been otherwise;'" the hand was at the prisoner's face; "'I
"If it had been possible, Miss Manette, that you could have returned the
"If it had pleased _God_ to put it in the hard heart of either of the
"If it is--" Defarge began, and stopped.
"If it is?" repeated his wife.
"If it was a light answer," returned Darnay, "I beg your forgiveness
"If it will do you any good, Mr. Carton, if it would make you happier,
"If I understand," said the Doctor, in a subdued tone, "some mental
I. Five Years Later
if I was a speaking machine--truly, I am not much else. I will, with
if I was not already full to bursting!"
if my marriage were so arranged as that it would part us, even by
if not debauched, they were sufficiently like each other to surprise,
"I forget what it was you asked me. What did you say?"
"I forgot it," he said.
"I forgot it long ago."
"I forgot them in the surprise of your visit," explained Monsieur
"If she don't hear the roll of those dreadful carts, now very nigh their
"If so be as you're quick, sir."
If Sydney Carton ever shone anywhere, he certainly never shone in the
"If that be so, do you see what, on the other hand, is involved in it?"
"If that will be a consolation to you, yes."
if the Aristocrat had drawn a blank."
if the axe had dropped.
"If the Republic should demand of you the sacrifice of your child
If there were--Charles Darnay, if there were--"
If the suddenness of her calamity, and the whirling wheels of the time,
if--the thought passed through my mind--I were dying too.
"If they are not in that room, they are gone, and can be pursued and
if they were alone. Eye to eye, voice to voice, hand to hand, heart to
if this doctor's wife, though a lady of great courage and spirit,
"If those eyes of yours were bed-winches," returned Miss Pross, "and I
"If we ever get back to our native land," said Miss Pross, "you may rely
if, when I shall tell you of my name, and of my father who is living,
"If, when I tell you, dearest dear, that your agony is over, and that I
if with impatience to pluck him out into the streets and kill him.
"If, without disturbing him," she said, raising her hand to Mr. Lorry as
"if you are ready, I am."
"If you come to advancing you know," said Mr. Lorry, delighted to be
if you could, it would be unsafe for you to make a sign of recognition."
"If you could say, with truth, to your own solitary heart, to-night,
"If you expect me to be surprised," said her brother Solomon, "I am not
"If you had," pursued Mr. Lorry, "perhaps you would attend to it."
"If you had sent the message, 'Recalled to Life,' again," muttered
"If you hear in my voice--I don't know that it is so, but I hope it
"If you knew what a conflict goes on in the business mind, when the
"If you know it, it is enough. What would you have me do, my Life?"
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
"If you please, sir."
"'If you remember,'" said Carton, dictating, "'the words that passed
"If you were shown a great heap of dolls, and were set upon them to
"If you were to go before," said Miss Pross, "and stop the vehicle and
"I give the promise," said the Doctor, "without any condition. I believe
"I go," said madame, "with you at present. You shall see me at the head
"I go so far as to say, miss, moreover," proceeded Mr. Cruncher, with a
"I had never before seen the sense of being oppressed, bursting forth
"I had no intention, in the words I used, to claim it yet. If it passed
"I had no opportunity of asking her any question, until I had told the
"I had not thought of both; I should not think either, likely. You want
"I had to get into the front rank; I was not born there, was I?"
I hang back, when Tellson's knows this and says this--Tellson's, whose
"I hardly seem yet," returned Charles Darnay, "to belong to this world
"I have."
"I have a cousin, an only relative and an orphan, like myself, whom I
"I have already said, that for my prospering there, I am sensible I may
"I have been a man of business, ever since I have been a man. Indeed, I
"I have been detained by"--the nephew stopped a moment in his
"I have been in the streets from the first, nothing has stopped me,
"_I_ have been there, as you remember," said Darnay, with a smile,
"I have come back, sir, as you anticipate, pursuing the object that
"I have delivered that letter," said Charles Darnay to Mr. Lorry. "I
"I have done my best for you, Mr. Darnay; and my best is as good as
"I have had the happiness, Doctor Manette, of being so intimate here,"
"I have. Is that a weapon in your hand?"
I have left to call my own--it is little beyond the worth of a few
"I have lived with the darling--or the darling has lived with me, and
"I have looked at her from my prison-window, when I could not bear her
"I have looked at her, speculating thousands of times upon the unborn
I have looked it in the face, in my different way; look it in the face,
"I have no business to be, at all, that I know of," said Sydney Carton.
"I have no choice," said Charles Darnay.
"I have no hope," said Mr. Lorry, in a low and sorrowful whisper.
I have observed her in the street by the prison. Let me but lift my
"I have observed his daughter," repeated madame; "yes, I have observed
"I have observed his face!" repeated madame, contemptuously and angrily.
     I have obtained the favour that the bearer has a short note
"I have pictured my daughter, to myself, as perfectly forgetful of
"I have saved him." It was not another of the dreams in which he had
'I have secured to myself the love and attachment, the gratitude or
"I have seen you somewhere."
"I have thoroughly made up my mind about it."
"I heard you were released, Citizen Evremonde. I hoped it was true?"
"I hear, messieurs."
I hint to you of a Home that is before us, where I will be true to you
"I hope," said Mr. Lorry, after another pause of feeble sympathy and
"I hope she will do well now," said Mr. Lorry.
"I hope, sir," pleaded the abashed Mr. Cruncher, "that a gentleman like
"I hope so."
"I hope there ain't, but I can't make so 'Nation sure of that," said the
"I hope you care to be recalled to life?"
"I hope you care to live?"
I hope you have been this day preserved for a prosperous and happy
II. A Sight
III. A Disappointment
III. The Night Shadows
III. The Shadow
I. In Secret
"I intend to try. I will not rest a moment."
II. The Grindstone
II. The Mail
"I kiss your hand, miss," said Mr. Lorry, with the manners of an earlier
"I knew," said Defarge, looking down at his wife, who stood at the
"I knew that this prisoner, of whom I speak, had been confined in a cell
"I know all, I know all," said the last comer. "Be a brave man, my
"_I_ know, _I_ know," rejoined Mr. Carton, carelessly. "Don't be
"I know it well," answered Carton. "Be careful of my friend, I entreat
"I know Mr. Lorry, sir, much better than I know the Bailey. Much
"I know, my dear, I know. I have seen it many times. Don't be
"I know," said Darnay, respectfully, "how can I fail to know, Doctor
"I know something of human nature, and I tell you that you'll never
"I know that, to be sure," assented Mr. Lorry, trying to persuade
"I know that your intentions are evil," said Miss Pross, "and you may
"I know the fellow."
"I know this messenger, guard," said Mr. Lorry, getting down into the
I lay on a sofa, almost from shore to shore."
"I listened to the patient's breathing, and avoided answering.
"I little thought," said Miss Pross, "that I should ever want to
ill-conwenient for explainin'. What I stand to, is, that he knows well
I'll get to bed."
I'll have my head took off, if he was ever in it."
"I'll hear what you have got to say. Yes, I'll go with you."
ill-omened lamp slung across the road before his posting-house gate,
"I'll run them over. I'll see what I hold,--Mr. Lorry, you know what a
"I'll tell the prisoner so. It won't do for a respectable bank gentleman
"I'll tell you," said Sydney. "I lighted on you, Mr. Barsad, coming out
"I'll think of it," said Sydney.
illuminated coffee-houses, and theatre-doors, to one of the city
illustration of the precept, that "Whatever is is right;" an aphorism
illustrious creature in sight of all his retinue; prisoners in London
"I'll walk with you to her gate. You know my vagabond and restless
"I made the patient swallow, with great difficulty, and after many
image in the moonlight often, as I now see you; except that I never held
imagined that she always brought me back after showing me such things.
imagining. But, he spoke, and it was his voice; he took the prisoner's
"I mean of him. Of my father."
"I mean," said Mr. Cruncher, "that he warn't never in it. No! Not he!
"I mind nothing while I hold your hand. I shall mind nothing when I let
imitation of some few of the great diversity of signals that he had
"Immediately after dark, I should hope. Within an hour or two from
immediately, if it suited his pleasure and convenience.
immediately remembered, and regarded his new visitor with an undisguised
immediately rested; so immediately, and so much to the changing of his
immediately went out to alter the arrangements, and left her by herself
immemorial usage of waiters in all ages.
I'm none the better for it in pocket; and it's my suspicion that you've
impart culinary mysteries to her. From these decayed sons and daughters
impatiently, but other help (if that were any) there was none. The
Impelled by a laudable ambition to study the art and mystery of his
imperil Tellson's by sheltering the wife of an emigrant prisoner under
implored the king, the queen, the court, the clergy, for any tidings of
imposed upon him, and which he had paid for.
impossibility. Papers and precious matters were this very day brought
Impossible, here in raging Paris, with Suspicion filling the air, for
impossible to be regarded in any other light than as a monstrous joke.
impossible to be there while the wood-sawyer was at work, and not be in
imposts they had ceased to pay; that I had collected no rent; that I had
impoverished French, who, tempted by shillings and half-crowns, would
impressible was Monseigneur, that the Comedy and the Grand Opera had far
impression--which he himself had originated--that he would not be
imprisonment, when my desire for vengeance was unbearable.) Whether it
improbable that he had compeers in Fleet-street and the City of London,
"I must bear it, if you let it in." (Laying the palest shadow of a
"I must do, to live, what others of my countrymen, even with nobility at
I must look in at Tellson's; so I will go there at once and come back
"I must say again, nonsense, nonsense! When I have executed this little
"I must say again that I heartily admire your gallantry and
"I must see Lorry," the Doctor repeated, turning her another way.
"I, my Pross?" (By this time, Mr. Lorry dared to be pleasant with her,
in:
in.
In a city dominated by the axe, alone at night, with natural sorrow
in--a common dog, but sword in hand.--Where is the loft window? It was
in a company of the dead. Ghosts all! The ghost of beauty, the ghost
(in a confused way, like the presence of pain under an opiate) was
In a dead silence and stillness--the prisoner under trial looking
in a general way, he preferred him to his (Mr. Attorney-General's)
in a genteel manner, before he departed, that he looked forward to the
in a happier future; I look only to sharing your fortunes, sharing your
in a hurry, "Yes, customers; in the banking business we usually call
In all weathers, in the snow and frost of winter, in the bitter winds of
In a moment, the whole company were on their feet. That somebody was
in a most ghastly manner that abominable place would have been, if the
in an angle of the wall, one prisoner, who seemed to have gone to
in and tethered to anything that would hold them, were looking stupidly
inanimate nature, as on the men and women who cultivated it, a prevalent
in an impure mist and rain.
in any of the reckonings over which she presided. Madame Defarge being
In a quarter of an hour Monseigneur was ready, and sat down alone to his
in a removed by-street where the closed blinds in all the other windows
in a rough plight, and mostly under water, so, Sydney had a swamped
"--In as good stead to-morrow as to-day. But it may not be so. I own
In a similar way I am, or I have been, trustee of one kind or other for
in a stately way, tolerated the odd-job-man. The house had always
in a tone not rising much above a whisper, began to tell her a story of
in attendance (wife of the man down-stairs), who had retreated into
in authority, who was summoned out by the guard.
In a very few minutes the waiter came in to announce that Miss Manette
in a wing of a large house, approached by a courtyard and shut off from
"In a word," Madame Defarge went on, "my husband has not my reason for
"In a word," said Madame Defarge, coming out of her short abstraction,
in both his own.
in brown. His breakfast-table was drawn before the fire, and as he sat,
incapable of all the higher and better flights of men. If you doubt it,
incapable of his own help and his own happiness, sensible of the blight
in certain quarters; you suppose mincing bread-and-butter nonsense. It's
incessantly groaning and calling out: "Yah! Spies! Tst! Yaha! Spies!"
incessantly hopping on behind and gaining on him, so that when the boy
in charge of an escort which the disturbed state of the country had
inch of his road.
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
inclined to go to it (when he doesn't, he can stay away), and I feel
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
in course of time; insisted on pouring into the burial-ground; finally,
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
In crossing the bridge, she dropped the door key in the river. Arriving
in danger of suffocation. My first act was to put out my hand to relieve
"Indeed?"
"Indeed I am lost here. All here is so unprecedented, so changed, so
"Indeed, my own? Why so?"
"Indeed!" said Defarge, with much indifference.
"Indeed, sir!"
"Indeed, sir," pursued the nephew, "for anything I know, you may have
"Indeed, sir? That was before my time here, sir. Before our people's
indeed. The panting of the horses communicated a tremulous motion to
indeed to unaccustomed and unhardened senses. Every little habitation
"Indeed! You are a pretty fellow to object and advise!" exclaimed Mr.
indicated. I thank you, Darnay. I may use that freedom with your name?"
indifference.
in distant corners looked up with looks of remonstrance, as though he
individuality, and which I shall carry in mine to my life's end. In
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
indivisible of Liberty, Equality, Fraternity, or Death, Monseigneur's
in Doctor Manette, intellectual of face and upright of bearing, the
inducement to come to me, relying on my confidence, had been the hope
"In effect," madame struck in, looking up from her work and her little
"In effect, sir," pursued the nephew, "I believe it to be at once your
In effect, the sun was so low that it dipped at the moment. When the
"I neither want any thanks, nor merit any," was the careless rejoinder.
"In England."
"In England, for example?"
In England, there was scarcely an amount of order and protection to
"I never said it would."
"I never saw you do it yet," muttered Carton.
"I never see the night myself, master--nor yet I don't expect to--what
in every vestige of a garment that the wind shook. The mill which
inevitably be sacrificed."
infamy, had resolved to immolate the traitor he could no longer cherish
in favour of one of them remaining. But, as there were not only carriage
"Infected with the new doctrines," said a third, eyeing the direction
infernal regions, seemed to be blowing the edifice away. With the rising
inferred, from the circumstance of his holding Mrs. Cruncher by the
infinite pains, and was so terrified at the sight of him that he could
infirmity attendant on perfect openness of character.
in firmness as he saw the Doctor disquieted. "I would recommend him to
inflating himself at his friend as he made the punch, "who cares more to
in Fleet-street.
in Fleet-street, with their two heads as near to one another as the two
inflict bodily and mental injuries of an acute description on passing
inflicting. The trade signs (and they were almost as many as the shops)
influence?"
      influence around me.  You cannot answer this.
influence on the mood of those who drank it was to make them gloomy. No
influence with him almost always. Not absolutely always, for she could
influence you to alter the course on which we now stand pledged to one
information?"
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
information. He had never been suspected of stealing a silver tea-pot;
informed of the circumstances?"
"Inform the Tribunal of what you did that day within the Bastille,
ingenious experiments, brought him otherwise into moderate request, and
in, he made out the three fishermen creeping through some rank grass!
in her ears, of the many times her father had told her that he found her
inheritance of any part of the agony she had known the pains of, by
inheritance otherwise. I have a presentiment that if no other innocent
inheritor, and next successor, from himself?"
"In her name, then, let it be done; I sanction it. But, I would not take
in her repetition of the phrase, walking up and down, which testified to
in her usual work, nor had she read to him. She had employed herself in
in him before; yet, he had some pleasure in the mere sound of his
in his arm-chest, and, having looked to the rest of its contents, and
in his bosom, on the sacred altar of his country. That, if statues
in his course.
In his expostulation he dropped his cleaner hand (perhaps accidentally,
in his face, imploring him to do no hurt to Solomon, there was a braced
in his face, nor any openness of aspect left, but had become a secret,
in his hand, as Mr. Attorney-General rose to spin the rope, grind the
in his hand, for his shoemaker's knife. It lay on that side of him
in his manner. It appeared, under the circumstances, rather agreeable
in his mind, and Mr. Carton made his way to the outside of the bar.
in his mind to its possible consequences. His first impression was
in his own head, added to a latent uneasiness in his mind, which had
in his place, as a physician, whose business was with all degrees
in his pockets, whose whole attention, when Mr. Cruncher looked at him
in his smiling face, and he conveyed an air of mystery to those words,
in his usual quiet dress. As well as the prisoner could see, he and Mr.
in hospital and prison, using his art equally among assassins and
in ignorance on the shore. My friend is dead, my neighbour is dead,
in it, and in the old wood-ashes, and in a crevice in the chimney
in its miserable inhabitants."
in its throat, stumbled down the two steps, got past the two ancient
in it that Sydney Carton knew nothing of. Thrown out of his honourable
in it, weird and unearthly, as if some unwonted sounds of a terrible
(injurious to himself) had instantly followed the sneers of Monseigneur,
in little casements; which lights, as the casements darkened, and more
In London, he had expected neither to walk on pavements of gold, nor
in looks, or in manner; but there was a certain rugged air of fidelity
"In making some alterations, the workmen came upon an old dungeon, which
in manner--standing side by side, both reflected in the glass above
in many windows there are no people, and in some the occupation of the
in marriage to your agreeable little friend, Miss Manette, Mr. Lorry."
inmate of a menagerie. Towards nine o'clock he smoothed his ruffled
in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live: and whosoever liveth and
in my letter. I had no apprehension whatever of my real danger; but
in my own mind, than to convey to yours. However, let me try. You
inner distance, and her knife was in her hand. Everywhere was tumult,
innermost personality, to me, or than I am to them?
innocent, delivered over to all devilry--a healthy pastime changed into
innocent heart--do not think I have the presumption to assume so much--I
in no way, I will undertake to correct my advice by the exercise of a
inn servants, and soon settled the question of his detachment from the
in one of their own horses or dogs, they only know what your breath
in pairs, until many of them dropped. While those were down, the rest
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
in Paris, and we are going there: I, to identify him if I can: you, to
in Paris for a provincial slave of that degree. Saving for a mysterious
in Paris he would present himself to this old friend, but he must say
in part discovered, the main facts of the cruel story, of her husband's
in place of the usual softer implements, and in her girdle were a pistol
in praying for him.
in precisely the same order of continuity. I knew that this might last
in proof of his safety, immediately after his arrival.
in question, "than I, as a honest tradesman, wish to know the Bailey."
insatiate Monsters imagined since imagination could record itself,
in secret, a woman's sympathy. Her hope had been to avert the wrath of
"In secret, too," grumbled the gaoler, looking at the written paper. "As
insensible figure, putting the paper in the breast: "is your hazard very
insensible or unfeeling; their ways arose out of the condition of the
In short, must leave it alone, like or no like. Sometimes, he gets up in
"In short," said Sydney, "this is a desperate time, when desperate games
in short, the period was so far like the present period, that some of
inside there!"
in skilful manner, he bestowed a parting defiance on Mrs. Cruncher,
insolent, and it is the nearer ended."
in so much as a word of one syllable, and I'll either catch hold of his
inspected their papers, looked for their names in lists of their own,
in spires of churches and lofty buildings, as perhaps the quiet time
instantly be obedient, still, and quiet. You must let me put you in a
Instantly Madame Defarge's knife was in her girdle; the drum was beating
instead of languishing into the parish like stray paupers without a
instinctive recognition of those qualities; the troubled time would have
instrument.
In such risings of fire and risings of sea--the firm earth shaken by
insufficient punishment, because they were her natural enemies and
insupportable. Through such an atmosphere, by a steep dark shaft of dirt
in talking with Lucie, never refer to the shoemaking time, yet?"
intangible impurities; the two bad sources combined made it almost
intelligence in the middle of the forehead, gradually forced themselves
intelligence; I want guiding. There is no man in this world on whom
intelligible:
intended that I should go across salt water, do you suppose Providence
intending the journey."
intent, on one knee behind them, with his agitated hand always gliding
intent upon the Doctor, who saw none of them--the paper was read, as
interchanged a word with any one of them, but who had been leaning
interchange the inquiry, "What do you think of this?"
interest in the whole life and death of the city settling down to its
interfering with. As to its being a disorganised city, if it were not a
International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
interrupted. "Go on!"
interruption, I do not doubt that you will find him, when you come back,
interval in crash, and fire, and rain, until after the moon rose at
intervals for the last six hours.
intervals, shall remain untold. The mad joy over the prisoners who were
interval that he might be able, after that time, to strengthen others.
interview, or this arrangement. It would not enable Her to go to see
in that corner of the Judge's bench, two persons upon whom his look
"In that more peaceful state, I have imagined her, in the moonlight,
In that same juncture of time when the Fifty-Two awaited their fate
in the arms of a company of Samaritans, who were seated on the bodies
"In the beginning of the great days, when the Bastille falls, he finds
In the black prison of the Conciergerie, the doomed of the day awaited
in the case, was, that my hand upon the sufferer's breast had this much
in the coffee-room of an hotel in that garrison-and-dockyard town,
in the Conciergerie. And the friend I purpose to myself to win, is Mr.
in the corner all through this space of time. And it was now, about
in the course of a night, without any detriment to his reputation as a
in the crowd, and gleamed at it approvingly; and heads nodded at one
in the dark was a City tradesman in the light, and, being recognised and
"In the dead of the night. Was he the only passenger who came on board
in the Dover mail on that Friday night in November five years ago, and
In the evening, at which season of all others Saint Antoine turned
in the eyes of the Republic?
In the first fright and horror of her situation, Miss Pross passed the
in the general departure from the Bank.
in the hollow of the left, and then the knuckles of the left hand in the
In the hope of his recovery, and of resort to this third course
In the howling universe of passion and contention that seemed to
In the instinctive association of prisoners with shameful crime and
in their dark holes again, the Fancy Ball was lighted up at supper, all
in their depressed manner, and whispering low, but showing no other
in their public vehicle, to that gate of Paris whereunto their
in their turn. But, the fierce figures were steadily wending East, West,
In the meantime, his son, whose head was garnished with tenderer spikes,
In the meanwhile, Carton would wait alone by the fire for the Doctor.
In the midst of a profound stillness, she faintly began: "When the
in the mind of the elder, too.
in the minds of the audience that his state was feverish; this one man
in them, Miss Pross got a basin of cold water and began laving her eyes,
in the most pathetic tones of the voice so dear to you, that you well
"In the name of the assembled companions in misfortune," said a
in the Old England times, and would be to-morrow, if cause given,
in the open night-air. Other sound than the owl's voice there was none,
in the ordinary exercise of their functions, looked so extravagantly
in the public streets? Is there--tell me thou--is there no other place
in the road below him. They all looked from the coachman to the guard,
In the sad moonlight, she clasped him by the neck, and laid her face
in these pernicious missions, within a few weeks before the date of the
in the snow and frost of winter, Lucie passed two hours of every day at
in the street, he thinks, if you stood in a certain place that I can
in the streets, as if it and a drummer had flown together by magic; and
In the submissive way of one long accustomed to obey under coercion, he
in the suburb of Saint Antoine, in Paris, where it was spilled. It had
in the two figures was, that although they were posted as close to
In the universal fear and distrust that darkened the time, all the usual
in the vices and neglects of men, will seize on victims of all degrees;
in the wall of the chimney, where I have slowly and laboriously made a
in the water disappeared, the prayer that had broken up out of his heart
in the winter, and such produce as could be saved from the same grip in
in this manner. I am as rickety as a hackney-coach, I'm as sleepy as
"In this prison that I am going to so unjustly, shall I have some free
in those particulars, and were fired by an express conviction that, if
intimate; I will say with the fair daughter to whom he is so devotedly
into a fit state for the immediate denunciation of him. Seeing it, he
into a space some ten or twelve yards square. As the tall man suddenly
into comparison. My Lord being prayed to bid my learned friend lay aside
into court with the prisoners, and sometimes rushed straight from the
into evening, so much life in the city ran into death according to rule,
into her brightly ornamented head to pretend that she had seen him do a
Into his handsome face, the bitter waters of captivity had worn; but, he
into his mind. Of late, the neglected bed in the Temple Court had known
into it, as if they had made it all.
intolerable oppression, and heartless indifference, smote equally
into my life, and my father's."
in to-night. Good morning."
into solitude and loneliness: jingling through the untimely cold and
into the city for peasants' carts bringing in supplies, and for similar
"Into the court."
"Into the court, sir?"
into the dark room here, and let us have one final word alone."
into the detested word, the living sea rose, wave on wave, depth on
into the Doctor's rooms, he was stopped by a low sound of knocking.
into the guard-room; meanwhile, they sat upon their horses outside the
into the likeness of the gallows-rope they mused about enduring, or
into the midst of a group of fifty particular friends, and was smiting
into the mist and darkness, he would have put himself in a fair way of
into the red coals at the Royal George at Dover, now a good many years
into the room where a heavy slumber had overtaken him when it was dark
into the room where I sat with my wife--O my wife, beloved of my heart!
into the streets again. As he passed along towards Saint Antoine, he
into this shape by the will of God," say the seers to the enchanted, in
into which his weapon had slipped or wrought itself, he groped with a
intoxication, that he cried Long live the King, Long live the Queen,
introduction in the nature of an article, and, if it happened not to be
in uniform, the eyes connected with the arm looked, not an every day
invariably gone one way--Charles Darnay's way--the way of the love of a
in very many others, the articles of daily consumption that were wanted
inveteracy of whose pursuit cannot be described) would wait to add that
invigorated himself with a bumper for his throttle, and a fresh application
inviolate in safe custody. That, immediately, on a signal, the prisoner
invisible to any one. Dear me! This is an occasion that makes a man
in vivid life, there were two groups of faces--each seven in number--so
involuntary homage of the low."
involve her life--and perhaps her child's--and perhaps her father's--for
in what benighted mind he had, he said, in a dialect that was just
in which many leaves of burning red and golden yellow still remained
in which you are always with her. I know that when she is clinging to
In wild dreamlike procession, embracing whom they met and pointing
in worse prisons, before now."
"In your adopted country, I presume, I cannot do better than address you
in your heart. May it otherwise be light and happy!"
in your power, if you should deem it right, to give me some."
in you to like; you know that. Ah, confound you! What a change you have
"I observed that they were both wrapped in cloaks, and appeared to
"I opened some of the bottles, smelt them, and put the stoppers to my
"I passed you on the road?"
"I perceive that, happily for me, the Reception of the day before
"I perceive your tongue is," returned madame; "and what the tongue is, I
"I play my Ace, Denunciation of Mr. Barsad to the nearest Section
"I play my Ace, Mr. Barsad," said Carton, taking the answer on himself,
I pledge you, but I deny the beauty. And now I'll have no more drink;
"I prefer to form my own opinion, without the aid of his."
"I propose that we first conduct your sister safely to the corner of her
"I really go to-night, for the case has become too pressing to admit of
("I really think this must be a man!" was Mr. Lorry's breathless
"I recall it."
"I received a letter from the Bank, sir, yesterday, informing me that
I regret it on account of others, but I am satisfied on my own account.
"I remember a certain famous occasion when you forced me to confess that
"I remember it too. The curse of those occasions is heavy upon me, for I
"I repeated the medicines I had given her, and I sat at the side of
"I repeat this conversation exactly as it occurred. I have no doubt that
"I replied to the Bank, sir, that as it was considered necessary, by
iron-bound visage. "So _you_ put him in his coffin?"
iron cage, bloody and dusty as last night, looking through. He has no
iron hand was down--down on the steps of the Hotel de Ville where the
ironical dissatisfaction.
irrepressible tears into her eyes. This was a courage that Madame
irruption into the courtyard, as he had expected, and he heard the gate
irruption was repeated, and the grindstone whirled and spluttered.
"I said, couldn't you describe the kind of shoe, for monsieur's
"I said, 'I have seen her.'
"I," said madame, "am equally engaged at the same place. After it is
"I said so! A brave number! My fellow-citizen here would have it
"I said so!" cried her brother, interrupting. "I knew it. You want to be
I said? When I left the village, Monday evening as the sun was going to
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
"I salute you, citizens.--And the first danger passed!"
is always advancing. Look around and consider the lives of all the world
is, and always was, a lame way. You summon no energy and purpose. Look
"I saw him then, messieurs," began the mender of roads, "a year ago this
"I saw this, within the first minute of my contemplation of the patient;
"I say a horse at a canter coming up, Joe."
"_I_ say a horse at a gallop, Tom," returned the guard, leaving his hold
I say it, how earnestly I feel it, without knowing my secret heart, and
"I say! Might I ask the favour? As to whether your name is John Solomon,
is best that Mrs. Cruncher should have it entirely under her own
is, but even if it wos. And which it is to be took into account that if
"I see Barsad, and Cly, Defarge, The Vengeance, the Juryman, the Judge,
"I seek him. We seek him. I know you, Evremonde; I saw you before the
"I see that child who lay upon her bosom and who bore my name, a man
"I see that I hold a sanctuary in their hearts, and in the hearts of
"I see the lives for which I lay down my life, peaceful, useful,
"I send it to her by you. I kiss her by you. I say farewell to her by
I send my desolate cry across the sea, hoping it may perhaps reach your
is forfeit to the people. His cursed life is not his own!"
is great force in that. Why stop?"
"I shall be there before the commencement."
"I shall be there, but only as one of the crowd. My Spy will find a
I shall fire!"
"I shall not go to bed till night; but I want a bedroom, and a barber."
"Is he alone?" the latter whispered.
"Is he always alone, then?"
"I should have hoped, gentlemen both," said the spy, always striving to
"I should have thought--" Mr. Lorry began.
I should have to pass the night at Tellson's. We have been so full of
"I should like to ask you:--Does your childhood seem far off? Do the
I should make that choice. You talk of desperation. We are all desperate
"I show him, in the way you have seen, to a chosen few."
"Is, I assure you," said the spy; "though it's not important."
is--if you hear in my voice any resemblance to a voice that once was
is, in her heart, towards you, all the love and reliance of infancy
"Is it being a good wife to oppose your husband's business? Is it
"Is it not--forgive me; I have begun the question on my lips--a pity to
"Is it not impressive, Mr. Darnay?" asked Lucie. "Sometimes, I have
"Is it possible!" exclaimed Mr. Lorry.
"Is it possible!" repeated Defarge, bitterly. "Yes. And a beautiful
"Is it the immediate object of this confidence, that you may at once
"Is it you," said Defarge, in a low voice, as they went down the
is Jarvis Lorry who has alighted and stands with his hand on the coach
is less open to suspicion of subornation in those characters than a
is lost, and he is sought--how many months? Nine, ten, eleven?"
"Is Lucie the topic?"
is much compassion and anger in this neighbourhood, touching the poor
is nobody to weep for me."
is nothing in it better than the faithful service of the heart; so
I spare him?"
"I speak for myself," answered Mr. Lorry, "and for Mr. Darnay, and for
"I speak, miss, of twenty years ago. He married--an English lady--and
is probably false. But it may be true."
is scarcely worth mentioning; but, is it yet?"
"'Is she dead?' asked the Marquis, whom I will still describe as the
"Is she not?"
"Is sought by any other suitor?"
is suffered or done: the shadows of the night were broad and black.
"I stand aside, messieurs, by my heap of stones, to see the soldiers
"I stand corrected; do you suppose--you go so far as to suppose,
"Is that all?"
"Is that all? It is not a great deal, that! Many are under the
"Is that all, sir?"
"Is that his child?" said Madame Defarge, stopping in her work for the
"_Is_ that the Dover mail?"
"Is that well?"
is the first condition of the body after death."
is the heavy breathing of the insensible traveller.
"Is there any noise in the streets now?" asked Miss Pross again,
"Is there any noise in the streets?" she asked him.
"Is there any particular and special reason for your being unable to do
"Is there?" asked madame, vacantly.
"Is there not?"
is to be expected of, or by, such profligates?"
I summon your brother, the worst of the bad race, to answer for them
is under the control of the Defarges, and has been rehearsed by
"I suppose they'll be trying Forgeries this morning?"
"Is well," said the Doctor, as he stopped short, "and your return will
it!"
it?"
it.
it.'
it."
IT!"
it again.
"I take them into mine!" said Carton. "_I_ ask no questions and make no
"It all tended to a good end, my friend; it was not mere waste and ruin.
it, and brandy, and rum, and sugar, and lemons.
it, and had passed from its surface and this earth's together. Haunted
it, and had seldom graced it with his presence except for the pleasures
it and its passengers, should be reduced to the utmost; since their
it, and said, "Where shall I commence, monsieur?"
it and smooth it again."
it and who have been long wrung to the last point of endurance, may, in
it as heavily as he could.
it as it began the descent. The guard soon replaced his blunderbuss
it, as to the public interest and memory, far out to sea, Mr. Jarvis
it at stolen intervals, under every difficulty. I design to secrete it
it away while he was present. Let it be removed when he is not there;
it being a spectral sort of race that he ran, and one highly desirable
"It brought me here, it brought me to my grave. When I was clear of the
"It cannot be, my child; there is no Time there, and no trouble there."
"It-can't-be," muttered Sydney Carton, retrospectively, and idling his
It clearly being incumbent on some one to say, "Much better," Mr. Lorry
"It comes surely," said Carton.
"It could not be otherwise," said the prisoner. "All things have worked
It could scarcely be called a trade, in spite of his favourite
"It depends upon how you dewelop your talents. Be careful to dewelop
"It did."
"It does not take a long time," said madame, "for an earthquake to
"It does not take a long time to strike a man with Lightning," said
"I tell thee," said madame, extending her right hand, for emphasis,
"I tell you once for all, there is no such thing as an escape possible,"
"I tell you," said Jerry, "that you buried paving-stones and earth in
it, "ever since. There it is. Oh, look at it, look at it! You may take
it ever tasted, and so did the stock of rum and brandy and aniseed. He
It fell out that he was thus engaged in a season when crowds were
it fell. Patriots, I speak the truth!"
It flashed upon Miss Pross's mind that the doors were all standing open,
it. For scores of years gone by, Monseigneur had squeezed it and wrung
it from him and dropped something into it from between his finger and
it gives us, from morning to night, enough to think about, without
it go, if they are rapid."
it had a fault, a little too exactly. Having released his noble bosom
It had once been noted at the Bar, that while Mr. Stryver was a glib
It happened, at length, that he had occasion to change the instrument
It happened, that the action turned his face to that side of the court
it has lasted a long time, and it is possible--you know well, my wife,
It has no good in it for me--except wine like this--nor I for it. So we
I. The Period
it himself--which is surely such an incorrigible aggravation of an
"I think, Charles, poor Mr. Carton deserves more consideration and
"I think," he whispered to Miss Pross, after anxious consideration, "I
"I think I am quite sure of it."
"I think in all respects."
"_I_ think it is well."
"I think it necessary to turn the key." Monsieur Defarge whispered it
"I think it probable," said the Doctor, breaking silence with an effort,
"I think not. I am sure not. It can't be," said the spy.
"I think not. It may be the character of his mind, to be always in
"_I_ think?" returned madame, in a high voice. "I and my husband have
"I think, sir," said the spy, in the meanest manner, as he turned to Mr.
"I think so. But it is, as I have told you, next to impossible. I even
"I think so, Carton, by this time."
"I think so, too."
I think, to everybody now here, and no one can tell me where this
"I think you have been drinking, Mr. Carton."
"I think you may take that liberty," the Doctor answered, smiling.
it (his lips and his nails were of the same pale lead-colour), and then
"I thought he was rather a handsome fellow, and I thought I should have
"I thought, my father," said Lucie, excusing herself, with a pale face
"I thought so. Quietly and steadily have all these arrangements made in
I thought would never reproach me again, and have heard whispers from
"I thought you knowed everything, father," said the artless boy.
it. If you should then be dissatisfied with it, you can but test its
it, I know, but it rises out of my soul. For you, and for any dear to
it, in a yellow waistcoat and green breeches, looking on at the struggle
it incomplete, presented it before him in an aspect that would be
it infallibly prevented the hair from turning grey, it imparted a
it in pocket, and I won't put up with it, Aggerawayter, and what do you
it in the person of that plotting and indignant refugee; and This, That,
it, in the second. Mr. Darnay, let me ask you a question."
it in your hand; it's no forgery."
It is.
"It is a far, far better thing that I do, than I have ever done; it is a
"It is against rule," answered the first; "but you can ask Him of Saint
"It is a great pity," croaked Jacques Three, dubiously shaking his head,
"It is a lady's shoe. It is a young lady's walking-shoe. It is in the
"It is all I could do," said Carton. "To propose too much, would be
"It is all the same," said the spy, airily, but discomfited too: "good
"It is a long time," repeated his wife; "and when is it not a long time?
"It is always as the good patriot says," observed the functionary. "Rise
"It is a painful reflection to me," said Charles Darnay, quite
"It is a pity you have not, sir."
"It is as the good patriot says," observed the timid functionary. "You
"It _is_ a thing to thank God for; is it not?"
"It is a tone of fervent admiration, true homage, and deep love, Doctor
"It is bad weather, gentlemen," said Defarge, shaking his head.
"It is Defarge," said madame. "Silence, patriots!"
"It is enough, my husband," said Madame Defarge. "I have seen them. We
"It is enough that you return straight to the Conciergerie, and will
"It is extraordinary to me," said he, "that you people cannot take care
It is for their safety."
"It is frightful, messieurs. How can the women and the children draw
"It is hard for me to speak of her at any time. It is very hard for me
It is hoped he will recover in the fresher air. It is represented that
It is Jarvis Lorry who has replied to all the previous questions. It
It is known only to myself, and to one other who may be trusted."
it is, my dear, that it should be so. You, devoted and young, cannot
"It is not often," said the second of the three, addressing Monsieur
it is now--his brother took her away--for his pleasure and diversion,
"It is of the utmost importance to me (you know, Citizen, even better
It is possible. Perhaps yes, perhaps no."
"It is possible," said the uncle, with great calmness. "For the honour
it is possible--that it may not come, during our lives."
"It is she," observed her husband.
"It is so," assented Defarge.
"It is so," assented Defarge again.
"It is so," assented Defarge once more.
"It is so," assented Defarge, without being asked.
"It is so, Jacques," Monsieur Defarge returned.
"It is, that if Miss Manette should bring to you at any time, on her own
"It is the fashion," growled the man. "I meet no dinner anywhere."
"It is the law," remarked the ancient clerk, turning his surprised
"It is too late for that. I shall never be better than I am. I shall
"It is true, madame."
"It is true," said Defarge, who was kneeling to look on and hear. "More
"It is true what madame says," observed Jacques Three. "Why stop? There
"it is very hard to explain, consistently, the innermost workings
"It is very high; it is a little difficult. Better to begin slowly."
"It is what I meant to say."
it is, word for word, the same. I describe everything exactly as it took
"It is you, Monseigneur! Monseigneur, a petition."
it, it is worth that effort. It would cost nothing to lay down if it
it!--Joe!"
it known to Charles Darnay that the king was in prison, and that the
It lay back on the pillow of Monsieur the Marquis. It was like a fine
it, let me take this ribbon from your hair, and shake out your hair like
it made a show and a noise. Say! Would you not?"
It may have been a signal for loosening the general tongue. It elicited
"It must be an immense satisfaction!"
it no longer than a few minutes, he had got up again, and haunted that
"I told you I would," said Mr. Cruncher, "and I did."
"I told you you had a remarkable face, Mr. Barsad," observed Carton,
it! Or, if they flop, their floppings goes in favour of more patients,
it--outwatched the awful night. He entered the courtyard and remained
It portended that there was one stone face too many, up at the chateau.
It proceeded from Miss Pross, the wild red woman, strong of hand, whose
"I try to be a good wife, Jerry," the poor woman protested, with tears.
Its abiding place was in all things fitted to it. A narrow winding
its appointed place and its appointed time. Little Lucie she taught,
its contemporaries, had taken so many lives, that, if the heads laid
its dangerous workings.
its destination amidst general rejoicing. Practical suggestions being
itself and the nation for a chance lost, that these five came down to
itself, and to draw a gloom over him, as incomprehensible to those
itself,--and was almost as in-looking.
itself. I know that, as in her childhood she had no parent, so she is
itself through any covering of the body, so the paleness which his
"It's enough for you," retorted Mr. Cruncher, "to be the wife of a
its going.
"It shall be done!"
"it shall not be in vain. Charles is summoned for to-morrow."
"It's hard in the law to spile a man, I think. It's hard enough to kill
It sheared off heads so many, that it, and the ground it most polluted,
"It should be very beneficial to a man in your practice at the bar, to
its imaginings, a secret to the heart nearest it! Something of the
its inner wall was covered by inscriptions which had been carved by
its inundation of the courts and passages and staircases. All around
its nature from myself, quickening nothing, lighting nothing, doing no
its noisiest authorities insisted on its being received, for good or for
It's not long, you see, guard. Jerry, say that my answer was, RECALLED
it sometimes causes me that has led me to our present confidence."
Its owner went downstairs into the courtyard, got into his carriage, and
its people were poor, and many of them were sitting at their doors,
"It's plain enough, I should think, why he may be. It's a dreadful
its purchase crumbled, and it now turned and turned with nothing
its revival in the floating whispers of his story, brought him.
its situation, Carton came out of those closer streets again, and dined
its stores of knowledge and fancy. He could write of them, besides, in
its tedious way, with its three fellow-inscrutables inside. To whom,
"It's the damp, sir, what settles on my chest and voice," said Jerry. "I
"It's the wisest thing to expect, and the likeliest. But I think their
It struck him motionless. The gaoler standing at his side, and the other
it subsided to a foot pace, swinging and lumbering upward among the many
its way. At last, swooping at a street corner by a fountain, one of its
it, terrible in history. It is likely enough that in the rough outhouses
it, that it quickly raised her, even from that shock.
it, that she turned from Defarge to his wife, and kissed one of the
it the life he was to lead; and he no more thought of emerging from his
it. Then, that glorious vision of doing good, which is so often the
it, to beauty that they never had, to accomplishments that they were
it, to know that it teems with interest; little more."
"I turned her gently over, placed my hands upon her breast to calm her
It was a bit of the art of an Old Bailey tactician, in which he found
It was a hard day, that day of being among them, with the first
It was a hard parting, though it was not for long. But her father
It was a heavy mass of building, that chateau of Monsieur the Marquis,
It was a large, dark room, furnished in a funereal manner with black
It was almost morning, when Defarge's wine-shop parted with its last
It was a long, grieving sound, like a sigh--almost like a sob. It
It was an oppressive day, and, after dinner, Lucie proposed that the
It was an ordinance of the Republic One and Indivisible of Liberty,
It was a poorer hand than he suspected. Mr. Barsad saw losing cards
It was a profounder remark than Mr. Lorry had looked for. "True," said
"It was as if the wind and rain had lulled at last, after a long and
It was as late as seven o'clock when he awoke refreshed, and went out
"It was. But, I was again taken and condemned."
It was but the inquiry of his first confusion and astonishment, the
It was characteristic of this lady (as of some other people before her
It was curious. The moment Madame Defarge took up the rose, the
It was dark when Charles Darnay left him, and it was an hour later and
It was dated from La Force, within an hour.
It was done.
"It was done when you were more than ten years old; you might have seen
It was easier for Mr. Lorry to look in at Tellson's, than to look out of
It was in vain for Madame Defarge to struggle and to strike; Miss Pross,
It was in vain for Mr. Cruncher to repeat what he said; Miss Pross could
It was known directly, to the furthest confines of the crowd. Defarge
It was not a reckless manner, the manner in which he said these words
"It was nothing to do, in the first place; and I don't know why I did
It was nothing to her, that an innocent man was to die for the sins of
it was now, in a moment, on his speaking to his daughter--he became a
It was now Young Jerry's turn to approach the gate: which he did,
"It wasn't ending it, I suppose? I say, when you began it, it was hard
it wasn't for the pain in 'em, which was me and which somebody else, yet
it was, of a hopeless and lost creature, that a famished traveller,
it was), of rifting and knitting itself into an expression that was
it was, on the windy March morning, the room in which he lay abed was
It was put before him, and he drank off a glassful--drank off another
It was raised for a moment, and a very faint voice responded to the
It was remarkable; but, the taste of Saint Antoine seemed to be
It was remembered afterwards that when he bent down and touched her face
It was so clearly beyond hope to reason with him, or try to restore him,
it was strewn. The court was all bestrewn with herbs and sprinkled with
It was Stryver's grand peculiarity that he always seemed too big for any
It was such a curious corner in its acoustical properties, such a
It was ten o'clock at night when he stood before the prison of La Force,
it was the age of foolishness,
it was the age of wisdom,
It was the best of times,
It was the dark and dirty corner of a small winding street. The hovel
It was the Dover road that lay, on a Friday night late in November,
it was the epoch of belief,
it was the epoch of incredulity,
It was the first time, except at the trial, of her ever hearing him
It was the first time it had ever been so complimented, and Madame
It was the last day of the year. The letter was lying before me just
It was the nephew of Monseigneur. He had been some few leagues behind
It was the popular theme for jests; it was the best cure for headache,
It was the rush and roar of rain that he typified, and it stopped him,
it was the season of Darkness,
it was the season of Light,
it was the spring of hope,
It was The Vengeance who, amidst the warm commendations of the audience,
it was the winter of despair,
it was the worst of times,
It was the year of Our Lord one thousand seven hundred and seventy-five.
"It was to you," said the spy, "that his daughter came; and it was
"It was under his hand, and I soothed him to let me move his hand away.
"It was when you came in."
"It was with the greatest difficulty that the boy gathered bodily force
it was you who brought me to England. I am almost sure it was you."
it were identified, what if the door were opened and the remains
it were less objectionable, it would be less respectable. This was
it, when a coach going out of Paris drives up to be examined.
it--which depends on many uncertainties and incidents--he might see you
"It will be dark soon after four. Let us stretch the hour or two. If I
"It will be much the same to your knowledge, miss, I should think,"
"It will do her no good to keep herself concealed from me at this
it will hardly bring her. Send other women up and down to seek her,
"It will seem nothing to you. Such whims are only impressive as we
It wore itself out, and wore him out with it, until the Bank closed. He
it wos, it wouldn't, even then, be all o' one side. There'd be two sides
it would be; but, when he saw it, and saw his honoured parent about to
"It would be madness if I asked you to escape; but do I? When I ask you
it would be there--and at this stage of the proceedings it was produced
"It would be troublesome, and might be dangerous, to explain in the
"It would be ungenerous to affect not to know that your self-denial is
It would have been difficult by a far brighter light, to recognise
It would have been of as much avail to interrogate any stone face
it would make me very glad!"
it would not leave him, but followed him upstairs with a bump on every
"It wouldn't do for you, Jerry. Jerry, you honest tradesman, it wouldn't
it would rouse suspicion."
"It would seem like flight, my darling. I must not urge them too much;
"I understand equally well, that a word from her father in any suitor's
"I understand how to put _you_ in a corner, Mr. Darnay," said Bully
"I understand. That I am too old?" said Mr. Lorry.
"I understand that I wait for you under all circumstances?"
"I understand the feeling!" exclaimed Carton, with a bright flush. "And
IV. Calm in Storm
IV. Congratulatory
IV. The Preparation
"I want a passenger, if it is."
"I want," said Defarge, who had not removed his gaze from the shoemaker,
"I warn't doing no harm," Young Jerry protested, rubbing his cheek.
I was conscious that there might be danger for others, if others were
"I was happy," said Mr. Lorry, "to be entrusted with the charge. I shall
"I was much engaged that day, and could not complete my letter that
"I was not praying against you; I was praying for you."
"I was not present at the ceremony; but my opinion is you were," said
I was one of the trustees. His affairs, like the affairs of many other
"I was only saying my prayers."
"I was returning from France a few days afterwards, and, at Calais, the
"I was saying to madame, with whom I had the pleasure of chatting when
I was speaking about our being friends. Now, you know me; you know I am
"I was startled, and asked, 'Is it a pressing case?'
"I was that child, my father, I was not half so good, but in my love
"I was weak and faint when you brought me in, and I am fainter now you
"I well understand that, without you, I could have no hope. I well
"I will be submissive to you. I see in your face that you know I can do
"I will come back, to see you off."
"I will do," Defarge doggedly rejoined, "nothing for you. My duty is to
I will do nothing for you."
"I will do so. Do you start for Paris from here?"
"I will faithfully," replied the man, "if you will come with me. But
"I will go," said Doctor Manette, "to the Prosecutor and the President
I will go to her."
"I will. I am going to. You can bear it?"
"I willingly obey the orders of my Chief," said The Vengeance with
"I will, Mr. Carton."
"I will remember them. I hope to do my part faithfully."
I will tear you to pieces, but I will have you from that door," said
"I wish accommodation prepared for a young lady who may come here at any
"I wish it, that I may the better deserve your confidence, and have no
"I wish I were going myself," said Charles Darnay, somewhat restlessly,
"I wonder," said Mr. Lorry, pausing in his looking about, "that he keeps
"--I would abandon it, and live otherwise and elsewhere. It is little to
"I would ask you, dearest, to be very generous with him always, and very
"I would not keep it," said Mr. Lorry, shaking his head; for he gained
"I would not say happily, my friend," returned the uncle, with refined
"I write with so much difficulty, the cold is so severe, I am so
IX. The Game Made
IX. The Gorgon's Head
jackal; "mix another bowl of punch; I have something to say to you."
Jacques!" Defarge stopped short, and stared at him.
Jacques. I met him--by accident--a day and half's journey out of Paris.
"Jacques One, Jacques Two, Jacques Three! This is the witness
Jacques One struck in, and asked if he had ever seen the man before?
"Jacques," returned Defarge, drawing himself up, "if madame my wife
"Jacques," said Defarge; "judiciously show a cat milk, if you wish her
Jacques Three demanded how he afterwards recognised him then?
Jacques Three of the Revolutionary Jury. Not in the wine-shop did Madame
Jacques Three were not yet up with them, and the men at the windows
Jacques Three, with his usual craving on him, and evidently disappointed
jargon about "the Centre of Truth:" holding that Man had got out of the
Jarvis Lorry. Banker. English. Which is he?"
Jarvis Lorry twice stopped to rest. Each of these stoppages was made
jaws and the digestive apparatus: if the bony fingers had been still,
Jeffries downward, and which can be traced, under various disguises of
jerks."
Jerry!"
Jerry, as he turned, "I should have known what you meant, this time."
Jerry Cruncher's name, therefore, duly embellished the doorpost down
Jerry had just enough forehead to knuckle, and he knuckled it in
Jerry hoarsely professed himself at Miss Pross's service. He had worn
"Jerry, if you wish to take something to eat, you can. But, keep in the
"Jerry, Jerry, Jerry!" his wife implored.
"Jerry! Jerry!" Mr. Lorry was already calling at the door when he got
Jerry, left alone in the mist and darkness, dismounted meanwhile, not
"Jerry," said Mr. Cruncher, apostrophising himself in his usual way,
"Jerry," said Mr. Lorry. "Come here."
Jerry started in his saddle. "That's a Blazing strange answer, too,"
Jerry, the messenger, who had made his own observations, in his own
Jerry took the letter, and, remarking to himself with less internal
Jerry took up his station on this windy March morning, with young Jerry
jewels--I will make it the first charge of his life to bestow, with the
job in his absence. The bank closed, the ancient clerks came out, the
"John."
"John Barsad," repeated madame, after murmuring it once to herself.
"_John_," thought madame, checking off her work as her fingers knitted,
joined Monsieur Defarge in the doorway to which he had directed his own
jolt--nodded in his place, with half-shut eyes, the little
jostling group or crowd, according to its size. Some men kneeled down,
journey.
journey naturally tended. There was the usual stoppage at the barrier
journey's end," said Mr. Cruncher, glancing over his shoulder, "it's my
joy to her.
"Judged!" repeated the farrier, swinging his hammer. "Ay! and condemned
judgment. Otherwise, the governor would escape, and the people's
jug and basin, he returned with such eccentricities of damp headgear as
"June 21, 1792. "MONSIEUR HERETOFORE THE MARQUIS.
Juryman, looking after her as she walked away, were highly appreciative
Jury, sat every day. Their lists went forth every evening, and were
jury would be out a long while. The spectators dropped off to get
"Just Heaven!" exclaimed Darnay. "Under what law, and for what offence?"
justice, honour, and good name.
justice of the Republic. She will be full of sympathy with its enemies.
justify much national boasting. Daring burglaries by armed men, and
"Just now, if at all."
just now, in saying I had no feelings, and that all the relations I hold
"Just so. And you know Mr. Lorry."
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.
keeper, crossing the road, and obliterating the jest with a handful of
keep his appointment. Her father had not been seen, since he quitted the
keeping a ferocious time that was like a gnashing of teeth in unison.
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
"Keep it for me until to-morrow. I shall see him to-morrow, you
"Keep near to me, Jacques Three," cried Defarge; "and do you, Jacques
"Keep where you are," the guard called to the voice in the mist,
kept from the knowledge of Lucie was so well concealed from her, that
kept her hand drawn through his arm.
kept the required watch upon his mother. He greatly disturbed that poor
key; then, came hurrying back to the Doctor, and opened the window and
"Killed!" shrieked the man, in wild desperation, extending both arms at
"Kill him!" croaked Jacques Three, who had come close up.
kind of thing for _you_. Now think of it, Sydney."
kindred in La Force! Room for the Bastille prisoner in front there! Save
kind, she had ravaged Soho and the adjacent provinces, in search of
King, in his wars against our said serene, illustrious, excellent, and
"Kiss me, child of Evremonde. Now, thou hast kissed a good Republican;
      Kiss our child for me."
kiss your hand towards that highest shelving roof."
kneeled down in the rain to do honour to a dirty procession of monks
kneeled on the ground beside her, and held her to her breast. The
knees, on these stones, to avenge you on Foulon! Husbands, and brothers,
knew him."
knew himself by no other name than One Hundred and Five, North Tower,
knew, in the swell that rose above them.
knew it would be so; I knew I could help Charles out of all danger; I
knew that under the overthrown government he had been a spy upon Saint
knew the jury would have, word for word, at the tips of their tongues;
knitted. Among these last, was one, with a spare piece of knitting under
knitted. They knitted worthless things; but, the mechanical work was a
knitted with nimble fingers and steady eyebrows, and saw nothing.
knitting for me, I am come to make my compliments to her in passing. I
knitting, knitting, that they their very selves were closing in around
knitting to-day. Madame's resolute right hand was occupied with an axe,
knives, some daggers, some ate and drank as they looked on, many
knot of customers, and Monsieur Defarge said to madame his wife, in
knots of loungers, squalid and miserable, but now with a manifest sense
know a compatriot who has found a Refuge there? A Doctor?"
know all the men of this part of the country. Who was he?"
know how scarce you mayn't make the wittles and drink here, by your
knowing how he lost himself, or how he recovered himself, he may never
knowing Mr. Lorry as the intimate friend of the Manettes, it entered Mr.
knowledge, and experience, could put me on the right track, I might be
knowledge, to the conducting of experiments, to many things. Now, does
known and encouraged. He was well acquainted, more-over, with the
known as One Hundred and Five, North Tower. I knew it from himself. He
know not at what times I may be watched. She had in part suspected, and
know now, the natural antipathy you strove against, and conquered, for
known _their_ husbands and fathers laid in prison and kept from them,
known to have made friends or permanent connections abroad.
known to the fashion. Peasant women kept the unfashionable babies close,
knows Mr. Barsad, I will invite him to Mr. Lorry's with us. Are we
know Tellson's Bank in London. I am going to Paris on business. A crown
"Know that a petition was presented to the King and Queen. All here,
know that eleven hundred defenceless prisoners of both sexes and all
know that, if I can prevent your knowing it; and know that, or not know
know the Bailey."
know then that his mind is walking up and down, walking up and down, in
know the terms upon which I have the honour and happiness to stand with
know to-morrow. You are summoned for to-morrow."
know what you have to do with the matter. If you'll excuse me, as very
know whether he has been for years overlooked, or always designedly
know; you really are in a bad way. You don't know the value of money,
labour. His few common tools and various scraps of leather were at his
laden. Dear Doctor Manette, I love your daughter fondly, dearly,
ladies and fine lords; and in jewels and silks and powder and splendour
Ladybird."
lady is Miss Manette. If you had been a fellow of any sensitiveness or
lady, my good sir," said Mr. Lorry, mildly tapping the Stryver arm, "the
"La Force!"
"La Force! Lucie, my child, if ever you were brave and serviceable in
laid his ruined head there.
laid their hands on the shoulders of the people before them, to help
laid the knife down softly, as he sat staring at her.
lamp he carried, on the shoemaker's bench (there was nothing else in the
language as of her own, if she had had a mind, she had no mind in that
Language: English
language, which caused them all to relapse into their former places and
language who was conversant with French literature. In this age, he
languidly moved; these golden fetters rang like precious little bells;
last finishing blows had told mightily on the expression.
last moment.
last night, and his promise of last night, and drive away!"
last night, that I dare not confide to him the details of my projects;
last night when the horses were unyoked; beyond, a quiet coppice-wood,
last nine days, he knew that he must face it.
last of their race, I, Alexandre Manette, unhappy prisoner, do this last
[Last updated: November 27, 2013]
late client to that degree that he squeezed the innocent Mr. Lorry clean
late gone with many poor souls. Cheer up, and have a thankful heart."
latter by saying that he had told it so often, that he believed
laudanum, my lines is strained to that degree that I shouldn't know, if
laugh and pick him up again. His face is bleeding and covered with dust,
laughed." He suggested it, by creasing his face with his two thumbs,
laughed, "you poor wretch! What are you worth! I address myself to that
laughingly, and to beguile the time."
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
lay before you a certificate of Cly's burial, which I happened to have
"Lay hands on this stranger if he seeks to lodge in your village
lay in it to keep him from pounding against the next passenger,
lead and iron boiled in the marble basin of the fountain; the water ran
leading me out into the freedom beyond the fortress. I have seen her
leading to the most frightful mercenary crimes that could be committed
leagues, and his clothes were chafed into holes, as he himself was into
leaned against a window. The curtains were long and white, and some of
leaned back in his seat again, and gave the word "Go on!"
leaned back in his seat, and looked steadily at the man whose life was
leaning over the dock, could fold her in his arms.
learned profession in its Bacchanalian propensities; neither was Mr.
learnt it here. I taught myself. I asked leave to--"
least thing--nothing--startles you! _You_, your father's daughter!"
leave me them? They can never help me to escape in the body, though they
leave my pretty sister; but I am called, and I must go!" those were not
leave you to judge what a damp way of earning a living mine is."
left an orphan through my mother's surviving my father only two years,
left to get out of their difficulties as they could.
left when the drag was taken off.
legend of any prisoner with those initials, and many fruitless guesses
leg on which he rested, as often as if he had fifty of those limbs,
Leisurely, our four horses are taken out; leisurely, the coach stands in
lenient on his faults when he is not by. I would ask you to believe that
less attentively, and his eyes in gloomy abstraction sought the ground
less fortunate than the mender of roads and his fellows, upon whom the
less likely to succeed on that account."
Let him be at peace."
"Let him come out too," said Solomon. "Does he think me a ghost?"
let him miss his old companion after an absence."
"Let it be read."
let me hear no more of you, or you shall feel some more of me. D'ye
"Let me interrupt you for a moment. Had he come on board alone?"
Let me see her. Go tell her that I wish to see her. Do you hear?"
Let me think it out!"
letter, and read it. These were its contents:
letter: the appeal of an innocent prisoner, in danger of death, to his
let that father go into the line of the reg'lar diggin', and make amends
"Let us be reasonable," said the spy, "and let us be fair. To show you
"Let us collect them together, in the middle of the cell. So! Light
"Let us hope so," said the uncle. "Detestation of the high is the
"Let us shudder too. We may know what it is."
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
liberality--"I'd catch hold of your throat and choke you for half a
Liberty, Equality, Fraternity, or Death!
Liberty, Equality, Fraternity, or Death, declared for victory or death
Liberty, equality, fraternity, or death;--the last, much the easiest to
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
lids of the eyes, and bear witness with the bloodless lips, "THOU DIDST
lie there, lost and forgotten; what plate and jewels would tarnish in
lieutenant's hands, "and have it ready for me in my usual seat. Keep
life and home, and being faithful to you to the death. Not to divide
life.--Chair there!"
life, footsteps not easily made clean again if once stained red, the
life for him; but, within a minute or so, he was stretched insensible on
lifeless desert. And wreaths of dust were spinning round and round
life of it. But, easy and strong custom, unhappily so much easier and
life. She was in great agitation. She presented herself to me as the
life to the chances of a refusal than the chances of consent. In short,
life was full of her loving remembrance of her lost father. My picture
life (without your so generous help), is, they tell me, treason against
lifted her; he took his wife in his arms, and carried her up to their
light, and looked at her.
light broke clearly on his mind. "Cly! Disguised, but the same man. We
lighted it as though it were the light of Freedom shining on him.
lighted. It now shone brightly, through the door of communication. The
lighted, they fared forth on this duty, and made and brought home
lightened toil of the day among the village population. Some, to the
Lighter and lighter, until at last the sun touched the tops of the still
lighter), conducted by four post-horses and two postilions, fagged up
lighter document; the jackal, with knitted brows and intent face,
light higher, you!"
light. I have looked at her when it has been such torture to me to think
lighting up, had darted into their houses, and were putting candles in
light in the guard-house, half derived from the waning oil-lamps of
lightning broke with that sweep of water, and there was not a moment's
lightning from the same place.
light of his. I see the blots I threw upon it, faded away. I see him,
light of the lamp that was hanging there; it was a dull lamp, and they
light of the window, by turns looking from him to them, and from them to
lights and to the ear with harsh noises, showed where the barges were
lights broke out there, and moved away in different directions, and all
light surfaces made him look very pale, with his long brown hair,
like a dropsical boy's Kite without tail and wings. It hid in doorways
like a fire. I had supposed that it must be latent in the people
like a larger dog-kennel. Mr. Lorry, the passenger, shaking himself out
like any other woman. She needed both advantages, for the marks of
like a sorrowful sense of peace, as any emotion that had pain for its
likeliest occurrence. Everybody looked to see somebody fall, but only
likelihood which the scene of shadows presented, was heightened to its
likely? Who would think of plotting with a poor little weak creature
like me?"
likeness.
like slumbering bears or dogs; the two outlandish customers approached
like the heathen rustic who has for several centuries been on duty
"Like these in shape and size?"
likewise, the shadows of the night revealed themselves, in the forms
like wonders hidden in our breasts, only needing circumstances to evoke
like you, to be seen speaking to him publicly, you know."
linen, aiming (as he very often does) at money from morning to
line of the mouth, and the lines of the orbits of the eyes, being much
lines; Hunger was patched into them with straw and rag and wood and
lines in the cruel face, looked ominous as to that; the uncle made a
line, suggested to her husband that he would do well to look round the
lingering agony, would always--as on the trial--evoke this condition
lingering somewhere; and yet, although the messengers have done dread
linked hand and arm, went with all the speed they could make. Here and
linked hand in hand, and all spun round together: then the ring broke,
linked shoulder to shoulder, and hand to shoulder, hurried out with
lips, and kissed them to him; then clasped them on her breast, as if she
lips. If I had wanted to use anything save narcotic medicines that were
lips, when he put it down.
lips with his own. "Now are you content?"
listened for a while.
listening to the utmost, he listened for any sound that might denote
"Listen once again then, Jacques!" said the man with the restless hand
"Listen then, Jacques," Number One of that name sternly interposed.
list, making a similar short pause at each name. There were twenty-three
Literary Archive Foundation
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
little box, with my name on the outside. From the first, I had anxiously
little breast? A shadow indeed! No substance in it, Lucie."
little coffee, ate some bread, and, having washed and changed to refresh
little counter with her chain of money as if she knocked its brains
little foreign in its accent, but a very little indeed.
little help?"
little helpful work for her that my hand can find to do, without that.
little hesitation, and in earnest tears, "I know you would say this to
little, he took it up and looked at it. In the midst of the action
little log or two of fire--perhaps looking into their blaze for the
little Lucie's sixth birthday, that they began to have an awful sound,
little more, all you can ever do for me is done. I wish you to know that
Little need, in presence of that tribunal and that auditory, to show
little new observation and judgment expressly brought to bear upon
little piece of paper, screwed it up, and tossed it to him. Opening
little plot that kept him away; and drank to him affectionately.
little quickened; but he repressed all other signs of agitation.
little resentful of your employing such a designation; but you are not.
little that he knew about them), opened before him, and he went in among
live a long time: she may even live to be old."
live at my ease. Time enough, then, to think about growing old."
lived."
live. It has died in a moment without pain. Could it have lived an hour
live no better life?"
living tongue spoken all over the world, and he cultivated a taste for
loaded blunderbuss lay at the top of six or eight loaded horse-pistols,
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
locked, and which one of the brothers had opened to admit us, and had
locks and bars of the prison on the crag, and never to come out of it,
lofty room, with its window wide open, and the wooden jalousie-blinds
loitering by accident at various points of the road between the Concord
Loitering on the way out of court not being allowed, Jerry heard no
Lombard-street, London, and also of a curtained alcove in the rear of
Lo, Miss Pross, in harness of string, awakening the echoes, as an
London.
London, England."
lonely road. Another fisherman was picked up here--and that so silently,
lonely spurring over dreary roads, they would come to a cluster of poor
"Long ago."
Long ago, when he had been famous among his earliest competitors as a
long, a hollow face, and exceedingly bright eyes. The hollowness and
long as it was in the nature of man to do it. I have felt, and do even
long, as to conceive the idea of improving on his method, and hauling
long, because I believe he cannot calculate the time himself, and there
long dead--"
long, dusty roads--the solid stone chateau which had itself become the
longer, watching an eddy that turned and turned purposeless, until the
long files of them, patiently waiting to buy bad bread; and while
long-gathering rain of stabs and blows fell heavy; was so close to him
long journey, and the winter weather, if I were not prepared to submit
Long live everybody and everything! as if he had never heard of
long ranks of the new oppressors who have risen on the destruction of
look and the action had occupied but an instant.
look at, in all this country round about us, which looks at me with any
"Look at me!" said Stryver, squaring himself; "I have less need to make
"Look back, look back, and see if we are pursued!"
looked around, he saw in his small fancy similar figures, stopped by no
looked as if he were old; but when it was stirred and broken up--as
looked as though it had passed like a moving light, from him to her.
looked at him, in vain, in passing on to the door.
looked at the fire; gave no orders; and answered, with shrugs and biting
looked far more as though it were spun from filaments of silk or glass.
looked handsomely diabolic.
Looked out upon a throng of men and women: not enough in number, or near
looked out with him into the courtyard.
looked to a smaller chest beneath his seat, in which there were a
looked up. He showed no surprise at seeing another figure, but the
looked up in the old manner, and repeated in the old low voice:
looker-on, and I saw in the two faces that all he said was true. The two
lookers-on, taking note of him now, said to one another they would
looking about as if for some friend who was not there, and went away.
looking as if it must tear the sheets to ribbons. At which juncture, he
looking at his friend.
looking at the uncle and meeting the eyes of the face that was like a
looking expectantly at the sky in one direction only. Monsieur Gabelle,
looking for the father and daughter whose steps he heard, he fancied
Looking gently at him again, she was surprised and saddened to see that
Looking his companion full in the face while he drank the toast, Carton
looking straight before him.
look of abhorrence.
look of being avenged, which they would henceforth bear for ever. In the
look of my dear mother's eyes, which implored me to have mercy and to
"Look over your hand carefully, Mr. Barsad. Take time."
looks.
looks upward. There is terror in the carriage, there is weeping, there
look upon, with not a trace of this day's disfigurement--and I hear him
"Look well upon that gentleman, my learned friend there," pointing
Loo, loo, loo; Loo, loo, loo! And off _her_ head comes! Now, a child.
loose chamber-robe, to prepare himself gently for sleep, that hot still
Lord above knows what the compromising consequences would be to numbers
"Lord love you, no!--I shouldn't," said Mr. Carton.
Lorry.
Lorry and at Defarge, some long obliterated marks of an actively intent
Lorry, and do you make any gesture that will attract Mr. Lorry's
Lorry, and Miss Pross--to whom the event, through a gradual process of
Lorry, an English gentleman then and there present, who, like himself,
Lorry asked him in a whisper, with a little anger:
Lorry, begged to ask him a few questions. The wigged gentleman sitting
Lorry bustled into the chair, and was carried off to Tellson's. Carton,
Lorry came in late, from Tellson's, and sat himself down by Lucie and
Lorry closing the little procession. They had not traversed many steps
Lorry could, though he thought heavily of these questions. He sat by
Lorry, "I may appeal to a gentleman of your years and benevolence, to
Lorry said, still looking steadfastly in his face:
Lorry sat at great books ruled for figures, with perpendicular iron
Lorry's, which was within a few minutes' walk. John Barsad, or Solomon
Lorry thought he saw, as he leaned forward on his bench in the dusk,
Lorry walked along the sunny streets from Clerkenwell where he lived,
Lorry were the only men there, unconnected with the Tribunal, who
Lorry when business hours came round, was this:--that he had no right to
Lorry would then cautiously proceed to seek direction and guidance from
Lorry. "You wish you were going yourself? And you a Frenchman born? You
lost.
lost!" cried she, wringing her hands. "What is to be told to Ladybird?
lost many privileges; a new philosophy has become the mode; and the
lost the habit of associating place with sound; he never spoke, without
lost to him, and what were capable of restoration--the old inquiry:
Lost, utterly lost!
Loud acclamations hailed this rebuke. The President rang his bell, and
"Louder," the woman recommends.
loud, red, bluff, and free from any drawback of delicacy, had a pushing
loud watch ticking a sonorous sermon under his flapped waist-coat,
loved you truly, and ever shall. Say but one affectionate word to me,
love her, bear to see her so?"
love of the man you see before yourself--flung away, wasted, drunken,
loves you through your dreadful trial and in your blessed restoration. I
love that Heaven has so blessed--my love for Charles, and Charles's love
love very dearly. She is five years younger than I, and she lives in a
lovingly at his wife, his wife only looking from him to look with
lovingly on her father's breast, tried to speak to him, and fell at his
low before it had been ranged on Temple Bar instead of being privately
low, distinct, awe-stricken voice, as if she were saying it in a dream,
Lucie and her father! Lucie with her arms stretched out to him, and with
"Lucie and I have been there; but only casually. We have seen enough of
Lucie had, by that time, fallen into a stupor on the floor at his feet,
"Lucie, I recall these old troubles in the reason that I have to-night
"Lucie Manette, only daughter of Doctor Manette, the good physician who
"Lucie! My own! I am safe."
Lucie should be spared the pain of separation; and her father, always
Lucie shuddered as he threw two more billets into his basket, but it was
Lucie's husband: delicately saying "Halloa! here are three lumps of
Lucie was to be married to-morrow. She had reserved this last evening
luck. Even then, I did exercises for other boys, and seldom did my own."
luckier or lighter-hearted, to frolicsome embraces, drinking of healths,
luxurious and shining life, and a great deal more to equal purpose;
lying by until the twilight fell. The escort were so wretchedly clothed,
lying on a bed.
machine. To go on--"
Madame complied with a polite air.
Madame Defarge.
Madame Defarge and monsieur her husband returned amicably to the
Madame Defarge as to his having seen Her"--he never mentioned Lucie's
Madame Defarge beckoned the Juryman and The Vengeance a little nearer to
Madame Defarge. By strange stern ways, and through much staining blood,
Madame Defarge cast down her eyes, and reflected a little.
Madame Defarge gone, like a shadow over the white road.
Madame Defarge held darkly ominous council with The Vengeance and
Madame Defarge, his wife, sat in the shop behind the counter as he
Madame Defarge. It would be easier for the weakest poltroon that lives,
Madame Defarge knitted steadily, but the intelligence had a palpable
Madame Defarge looked at her scornfully, but still with something of
Madame Defarge looked, coldly as ever, at the suppliant, and said,
Madame Defarge looked coldly at her, and said, "The wife of Evremonde;
Madame Defarge looked superciliously at the client, and nodded in
Madame Defarge made at the door. Miss Pross, on the instinct of the
Madame Defarge received it as a compliment, and looked at her husband.
Madame Defarge returned to her counter to get the wine, and, as he
Madame Defarge sat observing it, with such suppressed approval as was
Madame Defarge's counter. A third man got up and went out.
Madame Defarge's dark eyes followed her through this rapid movement,
Madame Defarge's hands were at her bosom. Miss Pross looked up, saw
Madame Defarge slightly waved her hand, to imply that she heard, and
Madame Defarge, still heading some of her women, was visible in the
"Madame Defarge, surely!" said Mr. Lorry, who had left her in exactly
Madame Defarge understood the answer.
Madame Defarge was not likely to follow these idiomatic remarks in
Madame Defarge, who had taken up her knitting, and was at work.
Madame Defarge, with her arms folded, sat in the morning light and heat,
Madame Defarge wore no rose in her head, for the great brotherhood of
madame, drawing a breath and nodding her head with a stern kind of
Madame enforced the conclusion of this piece of advice by striking her
madame. "I have them both here, of a certainty; and they are both here
madame knitting all the way there, in a public conveyance; it was
Madame sternly retorted, "I tell you a good deal like." Jacques Three
made a bargain for it, by holding up, as a statement of its just price,
made a decided scramble for it, and the three other horses followed
made, and was near flood. Small tradesmen, who did no business whatever,
made a struggle to look about him. Jacques Three was nearly at his side;
made for the swallowing up of London and Westminster. Even the Cock-lane
made his selections from it, and his remarks upon it, and the jackal
made in yourself! A good reason for taking to a man, that he shows you
made me start. We had better go in."
made off again, and never stopped until he had run a mile or more.
made of kitchens and sculleries, and fretted all the fat out of their
made only Two.
made right by you in that dress, I shall have no fear."
made scoops of their two hands joined, and sipped, or tried to help
made shoes, he made shoes, he made shoes. * * * * Five paces by four and
made, that seemed unusual. Breathing more freely in a little while, he
made the most of it.
made way. On seeing him, the miserable creature fell upon his shoulder,
"Magnificent!" croaked Jacques Three. The Vengeance, also, highly
"Magnificent!" croaked the man with the craving.
mail, and passengers by the mail being always heavily wrapped up from
mail was waylaid by seven robbers, and the guard shot three dead, and
Majesty King George the Third;" Miss Pross curtseyed at the name; "and
Majesty's Chief Secretary of State and most honourable Privy Council.
make a noise there. With the same intention, he drew the key across it,
make him draw. Let him break into as many pieces as he will, the sword
make it plain--can I use no influence to serve you? Have I no power for
make much of little means, which is one of its most useful and most
"Make the best of it, my dear sir," said Stryver; "say no more about it;
make this little preface, because you once mentioned the young lady to
Making his way through the tainted crowd, dispersed up and down this
man?"
man afar off, was the one small link, that they had once looked in at
man, and an unscrupulous, and a ready, and a bold, he had not that
Manette--"
Manette?"
Manette and his daughter, in England."
Manette has carried about him. It is a similar certificate, enabling him
Manette!" he said deferentially.
Manette. "It comes slowly."
Manette, I who have seen you together from day to day, that between
Manette's consulting-room, and to be debating these points outside the
Manette to have the task of being explicit with you, it might be very
Manette, unquestionably innocent of any crime as we are all well assured
Manette was seen, pale and trembling, standing where he had been seated.
man even now."
man eyed him inquisitively.
Mangle."
man, in a furtive, frightened way.
man into Tellson's London house, they hid him somewhere till he was
man, is not so much to the purpose, as that he made a short call upon
mankind of the blood of Monseigneur, who, his own wife included, looked
man knows it was a sham, is a wonder of wonders to me."
man like a spectre, as long as they could bear it. By degrees, as they
"Man, man!" returned Carton, stamping his foot; "have I sworn by no
manner, and observing that it was time to go to bed.
manner, and who had been sucking the rust off his fingers in his
manner, as he looked at the moon, "It was twenty either way, I remember,
manner, as if he were compelled against his will to add, internally,
manner of clasping his head and drearily wandering away into his own
manner of receiving the look, did not inspire confidence; he changed the
manner overhead, as if they were at sea. Indeed they were at sea, and
manner. There was a character about Madame Defarge, from which one might
man of business.
man stood in his presence, who, with a keenly observant look at him,
man was Defarge.
man who had been dug out, and wondering what subtle powers were for ever
man who instructs youth knows him? Well, but I'll answer you. I am sorry
man who was here? Turn my face to him.'
Many a night and many a day had its inmates listened to the echoes in
many as blameless as her husband and as dear to others as he was to
many hours before, to picture to himself on which of the rough stones of
many hours, when he presented himself. He was not improved in habits, or
"Many things."
many times her husband had said to her that no cares and duties seemed
many windows; not even a chance passerby was in the street. An unnatural
marked.
mark for a hurricane of national bullets. It had never been a good
mark--"what are you up to, Aggerawayter?"
Marquis, abandoned the estates when he inherited them, and left them to
Marquis. But he lives unknown in England, he is no Marquis there; he is
Marquis clapped his hand for an instant on his sword-hilt.
Marquis in the face. It was not for his dignity to notice it; his
Marquis leaned back in his seat, and was just being driven away with the
Marquis looked that way, and listened for the retreating step of his
"'Marquis,' said the boy, turned to him with his eyes opened wide, and
"Married, Evremonde?"
"Marvellous cognac this, madame!"
mask, suddenly startled, made angry, and petrified. Driven home into the
master."
Master Cruncher (who was in his shirt) took this very ill, and, turning
mastery of them even in his sleep. A more remarkable face in its quiet,
match for any foreigner, was not to be shaken by distress and, danger,
material, that no sorrowful story of a haunting Spirit ever arose among
matter in hand became so knotty, that the jackal found it imperative on
matter? Lucie! Manette! What has happened? What has brought you here?
matter with Mr. Lorry, and had its weight in his good opinion of her.
maturely considering the spot.
mature woman delicately bred--that the inversion of all experience and
may be able to think so well of me, as to urge no influence against
may be observed in all free livers of his class, from the portrait of
may be, or there will be. It is all the same. What would you have?"
"May be so, Mr. Darnay; may be not. Don't let your sober face elate you,
may be too late, I don't know, but let it not be a minute later!"
may go."
May I ask a question, Doctor Manette, before I go?"
"May I ask, sir, if you think she is--" As he hesitated, her father
"May I ask the cause?"
may identify them. I believe," said Mr. Lorry, rather halting in his
"May I go with you, father?" asked his son, briskly.
may in the spirit.' Those were the words I said. I remember them very
may not be disturbed. They kept him out in the unwholesome mists at
may not be right?"
may say that I was a man of business when a boy."
"May the Devil carry away these idiots! How do you call the man? You
"May you prosper!"
me!"
me?"
meagre loaves. The people rudely pictured as drinking in the wine-shops,
meagreness of Frenchmen an English superstition which should survive the
me an advantage over you. Cly (who I will unreservedly admit, at this
mean any fashion of speech. Indeed, when I say I wish we might be
meaning, he heard her say, "I swear to you, like Evremonde!"
meaning of these creatures. They have but one, and it's Midnight Murder,
means of death; "here is one of his soldiers to be left on guard!" The
"Meanwhile," said the Marquis, "I will preserve the honour and repose
meanwhile, the Doctor had removed to the seat in the window, and had
me as fervently to-morrow?"
measured like most other hours. Devoutly thankful to Heaven for his
measurement of time. Though days and nights circled as regularly as when
measures of wine. Monsieur Defarge sold a very thin wine at the best
me, as you represent it to be to you. I have by no means forgotten it,
meat, wine, and hot coffee. Monsieur Defarge put this provender, and the
me believe, when I recall this day, that the last confidence of my life
me. But, the Evremonde people are to be exterminated, and the wife and
mechanical substitute for eating and drinking; the hands moved for the
mediation might save Charles, but they were very slight. He had been
me? Don't ask me why I make the stipulations I am going to make, and
meet the end with quiet heroism, a new action began in his waking
me here; I have kept out of his way. Go you in alone; I wait near. Lose
me. I am an Englishwoman."
me in slighting terms."
me in your mind, at some quiet times, as ardent and sincere in this one
me. I say nothing more of my stake in this; this is what I ask. The
me, I should esteem it highly if I might be permitted to place myself,
me. Kiss me, kiss me! O my dear, my dear!"
members of our society have been in secret, at first, and it has lasted
members of the profession to reason, the protest was faint and brief.
me my usual chair. Go you there, straight, for there will probably be a
Men and women danced together, women danced together, men danced
mended as to feel that."
mender of roads, and two hundred and fifty particular friends, stood
mender of roads called Jacques, who doffed his blue cap to the company,
mender of roads, grim, rough, swart, steeped in the mud and dust of many
mender of roads in a blue cap. All adust and athirst, the two entered
men had entered separately, and had been about to order drink, when,
men; he must have died of two.
men in red caps, armed with sabres and pistols, entered the room.
mention now, for instance, what nine times ninepence are, or how many
mention of it among the relics of prisoners which the populace had
men, whose faces, as their long hair flapped back when the whirlings of
me--rather, altogether ignorant of me, and unconscious of me. I have
mere beast of the chase flying from hunters, he was still in his
mere dull man of business, and you are a woman of business."
mere girl who sits on the side of the cart, and holds his hand. He has
mere mist of a dream--had been done a year, and he had never yet, by so
mere storm of coarse red caps and coarse woollen rags; but, as they
merited by the manner in which the family has sustained its grandeur.
merits and positions had been reversed (which is invariably the case,
me," said Miss Pross, softened by the tone of the apology, "he is afraid
_me_!" said Mr. Cruncher, surveying him. "Him and his hooroars! Don't
message. Much of that wouldn't do for you, Jerry! I say, Jerry! You'd
messages, as the spirits of this very year last past (supernaturally
messages to her, straight from his lips; sometimes her husband himself
messenger on horseback had exactly the same possessions as the King, the
messengers at the gate, and saw them admitted by the porter. There is no
messieurs, to where the sky rests upon it!"
metempsychosis no other than the same Monseigneur, the preparation
me than the elder; but I saw this. I also saw that I was an incumbrance
methodically, and with as loud and harsh an accompaniment of noise as he
methodical manners; "and if business is to be done, I had better do it."
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
me to dinner."
me to rise too, or I could not have still supported him.
midnight.
midnight, and no sooner; took horse for Dover; and began his journey.
might almost have been worth remarking that the fact was exactly the
might be, at any time, you know, for who can say that Paris is not set
might be counted as one. But they were very decently kept. Early as
might be relied upon to arrive in good time, and so went through the
might depend on his presence of mind, he commanded himself, and was
might have been a Mrs. Lorry, any time these fifty years almost!"
might have been easily found. He did not seek it, but repeated them and
might have done to a mouse--and silently and composedly looked at him
might have floated a king's ship. Stryver never had a case in hand,
might (mistaken or not mistaken) have that hopefulness to-morrow."
might not have made this journey, if he could have foreseen the events
might otherwise run me down, a head was put out at the window, and a
might pretend next; and he felt assured that if she should take it
might so incommode you, are only to be obtained now by interest
military lanterns, and one of them being handed into the coach by an arm
millions in France, and of the misused and perverted resources that
mind."
mind, and how difficult--how almost impossible--it is, for him to force
Mindful of the secret, Darnay with great difficulty checked himself, and
mind, had been hurried and incomplete. He knew that he ought to have
mind, Monsieur Manette?"
mind--that my memory is exact and circumstantial--and that I write the
mind--we all make such arrangements, more or less--he stationed Miss
mine. Even when we were fellow-students in the Student-Quarter of Paris,
mine, I think not. Would you do me the favour, miss, to take notice o'
mingled with them again in the morning sunlight, on the threshold of the
mingled with them also, and both were audible to Lucie, in a hushed
mingled with the poor shoemaker's white locks in the Paris garret, were
minutes, and fell asleep on his arms, with his hair straggling over the
minutes past two. She had no time to lose, but must get ready at once.
minutes that were falling from the spring of Time--through three dark
miserably, for his shoemaking tools and the unfinished shoes. Madame
misery, and to a Present beyond his misery: and the sound of her voice,
misery through which they were seen, that Charles Darnay seemed to stand
mismanagement, extortion, debt, mortgage, oppression, hunger, nakedness,
Miss Lucie, and--Miss Lucie, do you not think I may speak for us all?"
"Miss Lucie at home?"
"Miss Manette!"
Miss Manette had taken some refreshment on the road, and required none
"Miss Manette, had you any conversation with the prisoner on that
"Miss Manette, have you seen the prisoner before?"
"Miss Manette, I am a man of business. I have a business charge to
"Miss Manette, if the prisoner does not perfectly understand that
Miss Manette in his arms, who is the trusted friend of Miss Manette and
"Miss Manette, it _was_ I. And you will see how truly I spoke of myself
"Miss Manette, look upon the prisoner."
"Miss Manette, then!"
Miss Pross and he divided the night into two watches, and observed him
Miss Pross, "and I hope she finds it answering her expectations."
Miss Pross; "and that was my brother Solomon, if he hadn't made a
"Miss Pross at home?"
Miss Pross had gone straight up-stairs--and was surprised to find his
Miss Pross held the candle as if she were assisting at a murder--for
Miss Pross only shook her head and wept in silence.
Miss Pross recalled soon afterwards, and to the end of her life
Miss Pross, responding to Ladybird's pleasant face and pleasant efforts
"Miss Pross's brother, sir," said Sydney. "Mr. Barsad."
Miss Pross, shaking her loving and dejected head at her by no means
Miss Pross's own perception that they two were at bay. She saw a tight,
Miss Pross, submitting herself to his judgment, the scheme was worked
Miss Pross, "that I didn't cry over, last night after the box came, till
Miss Pross was a pleasant sight, albeit wild, and red, and grim, taking
Miss Pross was the family's devoted friend; Miss Pross knew full well
Miss Pross, wildly crying, "that I am incapable of forming any plan. Are
Miss Pross, with a terrified face, was at his ear. "O me, O me! All is
mistake in life."
misty air of Fleet-street. "My love to Lucie, and to little Lucie," said
moment."
moment before; but the wretched father was grovelling on his face on
moment, but not coldly, her father rested his hands upon the arms of
moment come?"
moment; it is but passing the room-door, and the worst is over. Then,
moment," said Madame Defarge. "Good patriots will know what that means.
moment, seized her round the waist in both her arms, and held her tight.
moment she raised her eyes again, went on:
moments. "I do not doubt your loving Lucie; you may be satisfied of it."
moments now? Take him yourself to the courtyard you know of, place
moment, spoke, through their foreman.
moment with extraordinary power, he raised himself completely: obliging
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
money. "There are only the usual odours."
Monseigneur!"
Monseigneur, and therefore foisted on all public employments from which
Monseigneur and the whole Court, through the Chambers, the Tribunals
Monseigneur, as a class, had dissociated himself from the phenomenon of
Monseigneur, early in the afternoon. He had diminished the distance
"Monseigneur. For the love of the great God! My husband, the forester."
Monseigneur gone, and the three strong men absolving themselves from the
Monseigneur had been out at a little supper last night, where the Comedy
Monseigneur had one truly noble idea of general public business, which
Monseigneur had taken his sister from a convent, while there was yet
Monseigneur having eased his four men of their burdens and taken his
"Monseigneur, hear me! Monseigneur, hear my petition! My husband died of
"Monseigneur, he precipitated himself over the hill-side, head first, as
"Monseigneur, he was whiter than the miller. All covered with dust,
"Monseigneur, I am flattered to devote myself to your orders."
"Monseigneur, I looked at the man."
Monseigneur, in London, was Tellson's Bank. Spirits are supposed to
"Monseigneur, it is nothing. The trees and the night are all that are
"Monseigneur, it is true."
"Monseigneur, it is true. I had the honour of being passed on the road."
Monseigneur looked out.
"Monseigneur, not yet."
Monseigneur (often a most worthy individual gentleman) was a national
Monseigneur of the Court--only the difference was, that these faces
Monseigneur, one of the great lords in power at the Court, held his
Monseigneur received him in a courtly manner, but they did not shake
Monseigneur, should be so soon wrung dry and squeezed out! There must
Monseigneur's house, and had marked it with the tri-colour, and were
Monseigneur's reception in that seventeen hundred and eightieth year
Monseigneur swarming within a yard or two of it, boastful of what he
"Monseigneur? That?"
"Monseigneur, the good God knows; but I don't ask it. My petition is,
"Monseigneur, the man."
"Monseigneur, there are so many little heaps of poor grass?"
Monseigneur were perfectly dressed. If the Day of Judgment had only been
Monsieur Charles, I see."
"Monsieur Charles, whom I expect; is he arrived from England?"
Monsieur Gabelle; and in a moment of reluctance and hesitation on
Monsieur Gabelle did heavily bar his door, and retire to hold counsel
Monsieur Gabelle was the Postmaster, and some other taxing functionary
Monsieur heretofore the Marquis, I pray you be you true to me!
monsieur; how is he called?--in a little wig--Lorry--of the bank of
monsieur inside, with the white head. They were consigned to me, with
"Monsieur, it is a cell."
"Monsieur Manette, do you remember nothing of me?"
"Monsieur Manette"; Mr. Lorry laid his hand upon Defarge's arm; "do you
"'Monsieur,' said I, 'in my profession, the communications of patients
Monsieur the Marquis cast his eyes over the submissive faces that
Monsieur the Marquis in his travelling carriage (which might have been
"Monsieur the Marquis, vendor of wine."
Monsieur the Marquis, with his flambeau-bearer going on before, went up
months when the Doctor was thus steady and confident. So much more
moral certainty. Unprepared as he was for the large pill he had to
more.
more and more of certainty every hour. Can such things last? Bah! I mock
more, and went away. So, the sunrise came, and the shadows of the leaves
more, before it found the glass for his lips. Two or three times, the
more: but left them--so like each other in feature, so unlike each other
more courage."
more desirous in his heart to serve a friend, than I am to serve mine,
more detested than any name in France."
more devoted to him married (if that could be) than single, and of the
more disturbed. "Wot can she have been a takin', to keep her courage up?
"More fit for that, I think, than to remain in this city, so dreadful to
more. If the Republic demands sacrifices from you, without doubt you as
more influence with him in the tiresome articles of state affairs and
more lords and ladies, more Long live they all! until he absolutely wept
more memorable wrecks with it. Seven faces of prisoners, suddenly
More months, to the number of twelve, had come and gone, and Mr. Charles
moreover, in the moral attribute that the partners in the House were
Moreover, it was the spot to which such French intelligence as was most
more probably a week afterwards. You know it is a capital crime, to
more remarkable than that a labourer in working clothes should be
more than five hours gone: where could he be?
more than other gentlemen do. Ever borrow money of the prisoner? Yes.
more than thirty, but looking twenty years older than he was, stout,
more to the purpose that you say you are."
more was done.
more will I do it, never no more!"
morning, Anno Domini seventeen hundred and eighty. (Mr. Cruncher himself
moroseness there! Your manners have been of that silent and sullen and
most abundant were raked into a gridiron-pattern by fingers, these
most alarming tendency to hold forth as from a pulpit--"and let my words
most other sauce to wretched bread. Yet, human fellowship infused
most part standing behind their chairs, or lingering up and down the
Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:
most pray for, was, that our women might be barren and our miserable
most vigilant watch on Mrs. Cruncher, and sullenly holding her in
most violent Quarter, and doubtless was influential there, and deep in
mother at the cradle side could always hear those coming. They came, and
mother had died, years before. These solemn words, which had been
mother, has its short arm held out for it, that it may touch the wife of
motion again; the women who had left on a door-step the little pot of
motioning to Mr. Lorry to come forward.
mourn for, or sympathise with, a victim of the Guillotine. She and her
mourning dresses, which she and her child wore, were as neat and as well
mouth and dropped under-jaw, looked awe-stricken.
mouth for all Saint Antoine to dance at the sight of.
mouthful of cool fresh water, madame."
mouths, formed outside the door; all those within the wine-shop had
mouths; others made small mud-embankments, to stem the wine as it ran;
moved after these words were spoken, put the lamp down, and confronting
moved down close to the writer's face.
Mr. Attorney-General concluded by demanding of them, in the name of
Mr. Attorney-General had to inform the jury, that the prisoner before
Mr. Attorney-General now signified to my Lord, that he deemed it
Mr. Attorney-General sat down, and the father and daughter sat down
"Mr. Barsad has been recognised by Miss Pross as the affectionate
"Mr. Barsad," he went on, in the tone of one who really was looking
"Mr. Barsad is the best authority possible, sir," said Sydney, "and I
"Mr. Carton," she answered, after an agitated pause, "the secret is
Mr. Carton's manner was so careless as to be almost insolent. He stood,
"Mr. Carton," the Spy answered, with a timid snap of his fingers, "my
Mr. Carton, who had so long sat looking at the ceiling of the court,
Mr. Charles Darnay. D'Aulnais is the name of his mother's family."
Mr. Cruncher, after surveying him in silence until he came to the
Mr. Cruncher came forward sideways, with one of his shoulders in advance
Mr. Cruncher came to a stop on the pavement before he answered, "How
Mr. Cruncher conceived the luminous idea of replying, "Agicultooral
Mr. Cruncher did not assist at the closing sports, but had remained
Mr. Cruncher had by this time taken quite a lunch of rust off his
Mr. Cruncher had no particular meaning in these sulky corroborations,
Mr. Cruncher, in an access of loyalty, growlingly repeated the words
Mr. Cruncher knuckled his forehead, as Sydney Carton and the spy
Mr. Cruncher reposed under a patchwork counterpane, like a Harlequin
Mr. Cruncher rose and stepped forward. His hair could not have been more
Mr. Cruncher's apartments were not in a savoury neighbourhood, and were
Mr. Cruncher's attention was here diverted to the door-keeper, whom he
Mr. Cruncher's eyes seemed to get a little closer to one another, and to
Mr. Cruncher's temper was not at all improved when he came to his
Mr. Cruncher--though it seemed on his own separate and individual
Mr. Cruncher thought it might be best.
Mr. Cruncher was so bewildered that he could think of no locality but
Mr. Cruncher was soothed, but shook his head in a dubious and moral way.
Mr. Cruncher, with some diffidence, explained himself as meaning "Old
Mr. Cruncher; "you'll have trouble enough with giving your attention to
"Mr. Darnay!"
Mr. Darnay?"
Mr. Darnay had kissed her hand fervently and gratefully, and had turned
"Mr. Darnay," said Carton, "I wish we might be friends."
"Mr. Jarvis Lorry."
Mr. Jarvis Lorry and Miss Manette, emerging from the wine-shop thus,
"Mr. Jarvis Lorry, are you a clerk in Tellson's bank?"
Mr. Lorry adjusted his little wig at both ears as a means towards that
Mr. Lorry and Monsieur Defarge had made all ready for the journey, and
Mr. Lorry at parting, "and take precious care of them till I come back."
Mr. Lorry came silently forward, leaving the daughter by the door. When
Mr. Lorry could distinctly see), though still very pale, was calmly
Mr. Lorry did not press him.
Mr. Lorry did so, and they went down-stairs and out in the streets. A
Mr. Lorry dropped off to sleep. The arrival of his breakfast roused him,
Mr. Lorry, escorted by Jerry, high-booted and bearing a lantern, set
Mr. Lorry followed Sydney to the outer door, and, touching him on the
Mr. Lorry glanced at the distant House, and glanced at the angry
Mr. Lorry glanced at the work in his hand, and observed that it was a
Mr. Lorry) had become their daily retainer, and had his bed there every
Mr. Lorry had been idle a long time, and had just poured out his last
Mr. Lorry had just finished his dinner, and was sitting before a cheery
Mr. Lorry had not thought of that, and he looked quickly at Carton to
Mr. Lorry handed him a paper through the throng. "Quick! Have you got
Mr. Lorry held it open in his hand, gazing in his earnest face.
Mr. Lorry, I'll be hanged!"
Mr. Lorry knew Miss Pross to be very jealous, but he also knew her by
Mr. Lorry leaned his arm upon the door-post, and bowed his face upon it.
"Mr. Lorry, look again upon the prisoner. Supposing him wrapped up as
"Mr. Lorry, look once more upon the prisoner. Have you seen him, to your
"Mr. Lorry, look upon the prisoner. Was he one of those two passengers?"
Mr. Lorry moved in his chair, and cast a troubled look towards the
Mr. Lorry of Tellson's Bank, an English gentleman who is now in Paris,
Mr. Lorry quietly chafed the hands that held his arm. "There, there,
Mr. Lorry readily engaged for that, and the conference was ended. They
Mr. Lorry reddened, and said, warmly, "You have mentioned that before,
Mr. Lorry reddened as if he were conscious of having debated the point
Mr. Lorry said what he could to calm her, and went himself into the
Mr. Lorry saw that they understood one another, and proceeded.
Mr. Lorry's business eye read in the speaker's face that it was loss
Mr. Lorry's countenance fell.
Mr. Lorry's eyes gradually sought the fire; his sympathy with his
Mr. Lorry's eyes were again attracted to his face. Taking note of the
Mr. Lorry's veins, methodical as their courses could usually be, were in
Mr. Lorry took it in his hand.
Mr. Lorry took the hesitating little hand that confidingly advanced
Mr. Lorry waited until ten; but, Doctor Manette not returning, and
Mr. Lorry was already out when he got back, and it was easy to surmise
Mr. Lorry was out in the night, before he knew where he was. Mr. Stryver
Mr. Lorry was so exceedingly disconcerted by a question so hard to
Mr. Lorry was so taken aback, that he looked quite stupidly at Mr.
Mr. Lorry was there, and Doctor Manette was there. She was there,
Mr. Lorry, who had gone out when the young lady and her father went out,
Mrs. Cruncher's flopping, never no more!"
Mrs. Darnay had once put in practice to "catch" him, and on the
Mr. Solicitor-General then, following his leader's lead, examined the
Mr. Stryver, among a quantity of books and papers littered out for the
Mr. Stryver had left them in the passages, to shoulder his way back
Mr. Stryver having made up his mind to that magnanimous bestowal of good
Mr. Stryver laughed till he shook his precocious paunch.
Mr. Stryver shouldered his way through the law, like some great engine
Mr. Stryver sucked the end of a ruler for a little while, and then stood
Mr. Stryver then called his few witnesses, and Mr. Cruncher had next to
much as a single spoken word, disclosed to her the state of his heart.
much as get into the throat of Monseigneur, without the aid of four
much by it, even if it wos so. And wot little a man did get, would never
much disturbed; "wot's come to her?"
much influence around him."
"Much influence around him, has that Doctor?" murmured Madame Defarge,
Much interested and agitated, Mr. Lorry said: "You come from Doctor
much more at my ease about your state of mind."
much more remarkable. My Lord inquired of Mr. Stryver (the prisoner's
much needed, this suggestion, too, was received with acclamation, and
much out of the common way. In the midst of them, the hangman, ever busy
much support, is this:--If the Republic really does good to the poor,
much, then. Whether or no, I won't be prayed agin, I tell you. I can't
much the way of Monseigneur under his reverses as a refugee, and it
"Much to be regretted. You might have used your talents better."
much to carry) lying in a bundle that it was worth no crow's while to
much your elder, for saying so, I really don't know that it is your
mud, and round the corner of the prison wall. The Vengeance and the
muddy legs, was rather like a larger sort of dog.
mud, picked up for the purpose, and smeared over it. "Why do you write
muffled again.
multitude at the moment prevented my following his remains, but I helped
murder and afterwards flay the victim, she would infallibly go through
murderous business-meaning there. Every eye then sought some other eye
murmur came rushing along.
murmur--like the breathing of a summer sea asleep upon a sandy shore--as
musketeers fired on the mob, and nobody thought any of these occurrences
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
must consequently let them out to somebody who could; as to finances
must have patience and wait: that's all. We must hold up our heads and
my arms were pinioned. The two brothers crossed the road from a dark
"My blood!" ejaculated the vexed coachman, "and not atop of Shooter's
"My brave wife," returned Defarge, standing before her with his head
"My child," said the Doctor, rising, and laying his hand upon her
"My child, you did see him, and it is Charles. If it had not been
my country and the People. I am the sworn servant of both, against you.
my darling," said Miss Pross.
"My dear Charles," said Mr. Lorry, with cheerful confidence, "you touch
my dearest wife--so much as to let me know by a word whether alive or
"My dear friend, I have a charmed life in this city. I have been
"My dear Lorry, I doubt if that could easily be. There has been a
"My dear Manette, I am anxious to have your opinion, in confidence, on a
"My dear Manette, if he were overworked now--"
"My dear Manette, it is the case of an old and a prolonged shock,
"My dear Mr. Lorry, it is because I am a Frenchman born, that the
"My dear!" said her father, stopping in his story, and laying his hand
"My dear," said Mr. Lorry, striking in to explain; "there are frequent
"My dear, there is an upper window in the prison, to which Charles can
"My English brother Solomon," mourned Miss Pross, casting up her
my establishment. But, now that I remember, one of you has already been
my faculties; but, I am quite unable even to say how she had become
My fair young English wife!--we saw the man, who was supposed to be at
My faith, messieurs, I offer nothing."
"My faith!" returned madame, coolly and lightly, "if people use knives
"My father! Even to hear that you had such thoughts of a daughter who
"My father," exclaimed Lucie, "you are ill!"
"My father," said Lucie, softly laying her hand on his.
"My father!" she called to him. "Father dear!"
"My friend, I told you so," said the uncle, with a fine pulsation in the
"My friend, I will die, perpetuating the system under which I have
"My glance had fallen, but a few moments before, on the fragments of
my good man, there was first a great crash, and then a great stillness,
"My husband, it is so. I fear he is not to be reclaimed; there is
"My husband. No! A moment!" He was tearing himself apart from her.
my innocent husband, but to use it in his behalf. O sister-woman, think
"My last supplication of all, is this; and with it, I will relieve
my Leave to Pass. I was ready to go."
my love, the darling of my soul, is dead; it is the inexorable
"My love, the staircase is as still as Death."
"My meaning," answered the man of business, "is, of course, friendly and
my meaning is everything you could desire. But--really, you know, Mr.
"My memory is still accurate, but I cannot write the words of our
"My mind misgives me much," said Mr. Lorry, angrily shaking a forefinger
my mind often. One cannot help thinking, having had some sympathy for
my morsel of black bread as I go, I make a circuit by the prison, on
"My name is Defarge, and I keep a wine-shop in the Quarter Saint
"My nephew," said the Marquis, glancing at the supper preparation; "they
My old pain has given me a power that has brought us through the
"My opinion, miss," returned Mr. Cruncher, "is as you're right. Likewise
"My patient died, two hours before midnight--at a time, by my watch,
my poor mother hid his torture from me, weep for it, weep for it! Weep
my prison-walls. I have looked at her, in a state so dull and lethargic,
my right?"
myself."
"Myself."
myself agreeable than you have, being more independent in circumstances.
myself here, to beg a little talk with your brother. I wish you had a
myself--timorous of highwaymen, and the prisoner has not a timorous
myself to a few inconveniences for the sake of Tellson's, after all
my servant, Ernest Defarge, a youth, up-stairs. When my servant came
my soul, that we shall see the triumph. But even if not, even if I knew
mystery of my own wretched heart I know better--I shall never forget
mystery to wiser and honester men than he,--that it faltered here and
my way to my work. There I see him, high up, behind the bars of a lofty
"My wife came to your house to reclaim her father? Yes!"
"My wife," said Defarge aloud, addressing Madame Defarge: "I have
name, all of you!"
name--"making signs and signals to prisoners. It is easy to foresee that
name, my gentle angel?"
name of Pross, likewise. That warn't your name over the water."
namesake, and blinder, and tore away the gates of God's own Temple every
names, but only twenty were responded to; for one of the prisoners so
name. The address, turned into English, ran:
Name the price that you put _your_ prayers at!"
National Property. Republic One and Indivisible. Liberty, Equality,
natural and right; so, take the lead, my dear friend, and keep it; it
naturally a poor little thing, faint of heart; nor should I have been
"Naturally," said Mr. Lorry. "Yes--I--"
Naturally struck by the disagreeable word, Charles Darnay requested the
natural order of things--for my sake. Your unselfishness cannot entirely
natural ways as he could think of, that it was a free place.
nature. I have done my best to prepare myself, and I naturally have a
nature of your calling. And gradually, what I had done at random, seemed
nature to so unhappy a beginning. Be comforted, and forgive me. Heaven
nature were going up to Heaven.
nearer and nearer.
nearer to destruction, I send you, Monsieur heretofore the Marquis, the
nearer to the beginning. It seems to be one of the kind smoothings and
near leader violently shook his head and everything upon it--like an
near to me: because they stood at the top of the cabin steps to have the
near you. Good could never come of such evil, a happier end was not in
necessary, as a matter of precaution and form, to call the young lady's
necessary for the French gentlemen to be landed in their boat."
necessary to mention more particularly what it is."
neck. I know that in loving you she sees and loves her mother at her
neck, looked terrified at Madame Defarge. Madame Defarge met the lifted
negligence than defiance. It was the settled manner of a tired man, who
neighbourhood.
neighbourhood, was ill-smelling. Monsieur Defarge's olfactory sense was
neighbouring public-house, and smoked it, looking in at the railings and
neither Lucie nor her father must know of it until he was gone.
Neither of them for a single moment released the other's eyes. Madame
"Nephew, I believe--but in any case degenerate successor--of the
nervously on the ground.
nervous passenger might, and was disturbed in mind.
nettled, Mr. Lorry. You are as good as another, I have no doubt: better,
"Never."
"Never," answered the mender of roads, recovering his perpendicular.
never been quite at her ease with him, and received him with some little
never been so intent on the accounts, but they had had a ray or two for
Never did the sun go down with a brighter glory on the quiet corner in
never existed, strikes to my heart as if I had been that child."
never fortunate enough to gain, to bright hopes that never shone upon
never given, and would never take away.
"Never imagine anything. Have no imagination at all."
never known it yet, he would have known it in his heart of hearts if he
"Never mind about 'happening,' Mr. Lorry. He was the only passenger who
"Never!" said Miss Pross, who understood the request as perfectly as
never seen.
never taking his from his feasting wife, and all the other eyes there
nevertheless, and vociferating in a surprising heat and with the
"'Nevertheless, Doctor, my sister married. He was ailing at that time,
Nevertheless, it was not easy, with the face of his beloved wife fresh
nevertheless, Monseigneur as a class had, somehow or other, brought
Nevertheless, not a moment was lost; not a moment! This Foulon was at
"Nevertheless," pursued Darnay, rising to ring the bell, "there is
never will do it again, whatever it is, and I beg you not to think it
"Never you mind."
"Never you mind what it is!" the guard retorted. "What are you?"
"Never you trouble your head about this man," retorted the contentious
new and agreeable. But, madame sat all day at her counter, so expressly
new or old, against the man she really loved--the direct responsibility
"News from the other world!"
new to me, but you are right, I dare say."
Next day he was looking out for her, and accosted her the moment she
Next noontide saw the admirable woman in her usual place in the
Nick's."
night.
night. All this while, Defarge, with his pipe in his mouth, walked
night, and looking seaward: particularly at those times when the tide
night, and ordered him back into his harness in the day. But he was
night. Bankruptcy must inevitably have come of this young Pagan, in
night. I rose long before my usual time next morning to finish it.
night of the year 1767, in my unbearable agony, denounce to the times
night on kissing her father, she would burst into the grief she had
night. Rustling about the room, his softly-slippered feet making no
night sky, concentrated into a faint hair-breadth line. So does a whole
night took such shapes to him as arose out of the message, and took such
night when all the village is asleep, come soldiers, winding down from
night when this place is clear and shut, we read it, here on this spot,
"Nine days and nights."
ninety-two. More than enough of bad roads, bad equipages, and bad
"no."
"No?"
"No."
no. A village. Look back, look back, and see if we are pursued! Hush!
no better state now it was his turn.
Nobles, in the modesty and virtue of our sisters, many years, but we
Nobody had made any acknowledgment of Mr. Carton's part in the day's
Nobody will suspect Jerry of being anything but an English bull-dog, or
"No; but before I go on," said Stryver, shaking his head in his bullying
"No. But I'll swear it was a name of two syllables."
"No. But the life I lead, Miss Manette, is not conducive to health. What
"No children."
no correspondence."
No crowd was about the door; no people were discernible at any of the
no curiosity or care for the scene about him, and always speaks to the
"No, dear Doctor Manette. Like you, a voluntary exile from France; like
no depth in the colour or form, and much too near together--as if they
"No dinner?"
no drawbridge, and he saw the carriage waiting in the open street, he
no elbow-room, Tellson's wanted no light, Tellson's wanted no
"No, father," said Lucie, yearning and weeping as she kissed her hand,
No favourable leaning in that quarter to-day. A fell, uncompromising,
"No. Foreign!" cried Carton, striking his open hand on the table, as a
no functionary, by any stretch of mathematics, was able to calculate
No human intelligence could have read the mysteries of his mind, in
"No. I am accidentally possessed of a power over one of the keepers
"No; I am going to play backgammon with you, if you like," said the
"No; I am not armed."
no impeachment of his high breeding; it was not from within; it was
noise of the living ocean, in its irruption into the Fortress, and
noise on the floor, he moved like a refined tiger:--looked like some
"No it doesn't; I assure you it doesn't. Having supposed that there was
"No. It has been kept from her, and I hope will always be kept from her.
"No, I will _not_, sir," returned Mr. Crunches as if nothing were
"No, Jerry, no!" said the messenger, harping on one theme as he rode.
no less abundant. Doctors who made great fortunes out of dainty remedies
No man ever really loved a woman, lost her, and knew her with a
"No matter, the number," said Defarge. "He is well hidden, but at last
"No, miss," answered Mr. Cruncher.
"No, Miss Manette; all through it, I have known myself to be quite
"No, miss," returned Jerry, "it shall not be named to you. Second: them
no more nat'ral sense of duty than the bed of this here Thames river has
"No, Mr. Carton. I am sure that the best part of it might still be; I am
"No, my dear, not ill. There are large drops of rain falling, and they
non-descript, it was the likeliest thing upon the cards. So the guard
none. A clammy and intensely cold mist, it made its slow way through the
"None. As yet, none."
"None." Defarge spoke, always looking straight before him.
"None. My mind is a blank, from some time--I cannot even say what
"No, no, no," said the uncle, pleasantly.
"No, no, no; you are too young, too blooming. It can't be. See what the
"No; nor will she miss now," cries The Vengeance, petulantly. "Therese."
"No, no! What have you done, what have you done, that you should kneel
Noon coming, and the Doctor not returning, and every minute's delay
no one else. Can I turn it to no good account for yourself, Mr. Carton?"
"No one has told me so," said Defarge, shaking his head. "I know nothing
no One Hundred and Five, North Tower, now! He had accomplished the task
no passive belief, but an active weapon which they flashed at more
"No!" protested Defarge. "Not if to lift this glass would do it! But I
"No!" returned the spy. "I throw up. I confess that we were so unpopular
"Nor have I."
Nor, how the lightest echo of their united home, directed by herself
Nor, of those who had been there when this visitor entered, was there
North, and South, be that as it would; and whosoever hung, fire burned.
north of the Oxford-road, and forest-trees flourished, and wild flowers
Nor was he; but, he had been expected with Monseigneur.
Nor was this the end of the day's bad work, for Saint Antoine so shouted
Norway, there were growing trees, when that sufferer was put to death,
"Nor written?"
"No," said Defarge.
"No," said Mr. Lorry, in reply to the House; "I have referred it,
nostrils, and Carton's left arm caught him round the waist. For a few
No. Sure he saw the prisoner with these lists? Certain. Knew no more
no. Surely not. To return to business:--Is it not remarkable that Doctor
no. Swear that? Over and over again. No motives but motives of sheer
not?"
notabilities left behind them in the fine world of Paris, that the spies
not a favour to be protected from the lamp-iron!"
not a laudable ambition, I am well out of my mistake, and no harm is
not allow his baffled state to express itself in his sinister face; but,
Not a mean village closed upon him, not a common barrier dropped across
Not an emigrant, he hoped, within the sense and spirit of the law.
not asked myself the question."
not, as you will remember, my own. I wish to tell you what that is, and
"Not at all, but I hope to know it better. I am so profoundly interested
"Not at all!" From Miss Pross.
"Not at all," retained the ancient clerk. "Speak well of the law. Take
"Not at all. Though it is to a prisoner in the Abbaye."
"Not a theory; it was a fancy."
Not a word was spoken. I was brought here, I was brought to my living
Not a word was spoken, not a sound was made. She stood, like a spirit,
not be a disturbed dream of his own; for, did not his eyes show him his
not be dazed and deafened by two immense processions, one ever tending
Not before dark night did the men and women come back to the children,
not come to deliver me? No answer. Ah Monsieur heretofore the Marquis,
"Not dead! He feared us so much--and with reason--that he caused himself
"'Not dead,' said I; 'but like to die.'
not done to-night?"
noted in myself that my reason will not long remain unimpaired, but I
no tenderness for me; I ask for none; I am even thankful that it cannot
notes, "in France."
"Not even by the dearest one ever to be known to you?"
"Not even so. I might not have the hopefulness to do it for weeks; I
not even unmixed with fear. With this strange expression on him his
"Not exactly so. I mean to tell you, Mr. Stryver," said Mr. Lorry,
"Not for use?"
"No thanks to you in brown, if she does. My darling pretty!"
"No. That was another thing. It stood before my disturbed sense of
not have laid a piece of money on the counter to save their souls. These
not hear him. "So I'll nod my head," thought Mr. Cruncher, amazed, "at
No; the great magician who majestically works out the appointed order
no, the mender of roads ran, on the sultry morning, as if for his life,
No. They were all by that time choking the Hall of Examination where
nothing.
"Nothing."
"Nothing at all, Joe."
"Nothing but supper now," said the mender of roads, with a hungry face.
Nothing but the production of the afflicted Gabelle's letter from his
"Nothing, Carton."
"Nothing connected with Charles was concealed from me. I had the
nothing else than this. I know you are true."
"Nothing human could have held life in the boy but his determination to
nothing in it like the real house), unaccountably released and light of
nothing in that, I hope, to prevent my calling the reckoning, and our
"Nothing in the wood, and nothing in the straw, Jacques?"
Nothing more was said, and the mender of roads, being found already
nothing of his intention now.
nothing of my fate--for I cannot write--and if I could, how should I
nothing revealed by the many eyes that looked at him but watchfulness
"Nothing to boast of," said Miss Pross.
Nothing unbecoming tinged the pride; it was a natural and worthy one;
nothing was more noticed in the vast concourse that saw it done, than
Nothing was said in answer, but she heard a low hammering sound in his
Nothing would induce him to speak more. He looked up, for an instant at
"Nothing yet."
noticeable, so very powerfully and naturally shown, that starers who
notice, when he rang the door-bell of the tranquil house in the corner,
no time!"
no time to tell you. You must comply with it--take off those boots you
not indicate; but they were all the faces of a man of five-and-forty by
"Not I!" said Stryver, whistling. "I can't undertake to find third
not justified in saying anything about this matter, for, as a man of
not lasted a minute, when he nodded and went out. The gentleman then
not likely to be heard, and I pray for bodily strength to keep you here,
not mentioned if they stayed there, staring, recovered her charge by a
not much alike in any particular, you and I."
"Not much boiling down to be done to-night, Memory," said Mr. Stryver,
"Not much. If it should go ill with the prisoner, I have ensured access
not my business!" he would generally say at those times, and would
not obtained one infamous notoriety that has since attached to it.
"Not of Beauvais?"
"Not of late years. It is fifteen years since we--since I--came last
Not only that; but the village, light-headed with famine, fire, and
not only the witness, but everybody present, when they were thus brought
not only was Miss Pross lost in amazement and agitation, but,
no touch of compunction. Miss Pross's fidelity of belief in Solomon
not permitted to write to him: for, among the many wild suspicions of
not persuaded. No! Taken out of harness one day at noon, to feed--if he
not quite one of perplexity, or wonder, or alarm, or merely of a bright
not remain, but from which he travelled back some dozen miles or more,
not restrain himself from speaking disrespectfully of that young lady at
Not seeing with precision what was very hard, Mr. Lorry shook his head;
not sit upon that Bench and suffer those allusions.
Not so like (the witness said) as that he could be mistaken.
not so red as the rest. Sounding Mr. Cruncher, and finding him of her
"Not that, sir! Let that be! I adjure you, do not recall that!"
not to add your death to the bitterness of mine."
"Not to death," said the uncle; "it is not necessary to say, to death."
"Not to understand your play," returned the spy, somewhat uneasily.
not unfastened the bandages restraining the arms; but, I had looked to
not until long afterwards, when France and she were far apart, did she
"Not very much. You are a turnkey at the Conciergerie?"
Notwithstanding an unusual flow of company, the master of the wine-shop
Notwithstanding Miss Pross's denial of her own imagination, there was a
Not yet trusting the tones of her voice, she sat down on the bench
November should come with its fogs atmospheric, and fogs legal, and
no vestige of colour, and large widely opened patient eyes, rose from
"Now, Aggerawayter! What are you up to? At it again?"
now and then glanced at the flower, it was with no infraction of her
"Now and then," said Miss Pross.
"Now, as to the future," hinted Mr. Lorry.
now. But, I am sure that he is capable of good things, gentle things,
now devoted to you with all the constancy and fervour of her present
"Now, did you ever see him," asked the Doctor, distinctly and
"Now don't be angry at my asking all these questions; because I am a
"Now, don't let my announcement of the name make you uncomfortable,
now, doors and windows were thrown open, horses in their stables looked
now feel, that to bring my love--even mine--between you, is to touch
Now, from the days when it was always summer in Eden, to these days
"now, go home!"
nowhere."
No white-haired man was there now; but, the three men were there who had
now I believe that the mark of the red cross is fatal to them, and that
now immovable, had deepened into one of pain and horror.
now in despondency!"
now, in place of his blue one) seemed fascinated by the figure on the
"Now, I tell you where it is!" said Mr. Cruncher to his wife, on
Now, it is of no use asking too much of me. Ask me to do anything in my
"Now, I told you so," said the spy, casting a reproachful look at his
"Now, I trust," said Sydney to him, "that the name and influence of
"Now, let me recommend you," pursued Stryver, "to look it in the face.
"Now, let me see," said Madame Defarge, pondering again. "Yet once more!
now let's look at you."
"'Now, lift me up, Doctor; lift me up. Where is he?'
"Now, look here! I am going to tell you something that will rather
"Now, Mr. Cruncher," said Miss Pross, whose eyes were red with felicity;
"Now, my dear Manette," said Mr. Lorry, at length, in his most
no words can describe; which were made the more ludicrous by his anxious
now reappeared, and beckoned to Jerry: who, in the slackened interest,
"Now," said Mr. Lorry, gently laying his hand on the Doctor's arm again,
"Now," said Solomon, stopping at the dark street corner, "what do you
now shouldered back into the group, just as he had previously shouldered
Now that he had no work to hold, he laid the knuckles of the right hand
Now, that the streets were quiet, and the night wore on, the words
Now that this was changed, and he knew himself to be invested through
"Now, there you are hasty, sir," said Barsad, with a smile that gave his
Now, the sun was full up, and movement began in the village. Casement
now--though never," he added, with a smile and a sigh together, "such
"Now, to the prisoner's conversation, Miss Manette."
now touch this honoured hand."
"Now understand me," pursued Mr. Lorry. "As a man of business, I am
"Now what do you think, Mr. Cruncher," said Miss Pross, whose agitation
"Now, what I would humbly offer to you, sir," pursued Mr. Cruncher,
Now, when the journey of the travelling coach, at that very moment
Now, which of the multitude of faces that showed themselves before him
now. Why should you be? If you will lock the door to secure us from
"Now you know all about it, Syd," said Mr. Stryver. "I don't care about
"Now your dinner is done," Carton presently said, "why don't you call a
"No, you mayn't. I'm a going--as your mother knows--a fishing. That's
number appeals by look or gesture, to the pity of the people.
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
number of voices, and the horses reared and plunged.
numbers he would never hear again. Nine gone for ever, ten gone for
numskulls were deliberating which world you should belong to--this, or
obedient to the whip, as long as this roof," looking up to it, "shuts
obeyed them. Mr. Cruncher beguiled the earlier watches of the night with
objectionable, but were only the more respectable.
object of squeezing himself back again.
objects, Mr. Lorry shivered, and retired to his seat by the fire. He had
observation to his next neighbour, and added, "I'd hold half a guinea
observed by the spies who looked in at the wine-shop, as they looked in
observed Defarge.
observe that the shoemaker, whose hand had been a little out at first,
obstacle, tending to centres all over France.
occasion."
occasional look which had a tendency in it to dark doubt and dread.
occasionally clasping his head in his hands, that had not been seen
occasionally. If it be at all, it can only be by one of these."
occasionally, some partial shouts of tumult broke and leaped into the
occasional service; and Jerry (almost wholly transferred to them by
occasioned by an external circumstance beyond his control--the setting
occasioned candles to be borrowed in a rather peremptory manner of
occasion of his renouncing by proxy the works of darkness, in the
occasions, and by divers means and ways, assisted Lewis, the French
occupation, and it was so welcome when it came; no doubt it relieved
occupation. Think, dear friend!"
occupy. It will suit you to a marvel."
o'clock. Towards that small and ghostly hour, he rose up from his chair,
odd circumstance connected with Mr. Cruncher's domestic economy, that,
odd-job-man, an occasional porter and messenger, who served as the live
"O dearest Charles, let me thank God for this on my knees as I have
of a certain size, at a certain convenient height from the ground. Mr.
of a child whom he had held in his arms on the passage across that very
of a cutter of wood into lengths for burning, was the only house at that
of a few days. And yet his misgivings were not so dark as, imagined by
of a few moments, during which they all looked towards him without
of a high melancholy square of buildings marked deserted homes.
of a horse at Tellson's door, who made off with it, was put to
of a lantern that was held, and extinguished the ashes with his foot.
"Of all the people upon earth, you least expected to see me?" he said.
Of all these cries, and ten thousand incoherences, "The Prisoners!" was
of a nation, as it is in the fever of one patient. Now, breaking the
of, and, as they went into the house, the business eye of Mr. Lorry
of an individual case that was not yet stated, and of representations,
of Antiquity, and offered a few words of explanation in the French
of anything but black bread and death. Is it not so, Jacques?"
of a pile, and similarly it must be knocked into you."
of a sound made long and long ago. So entirely had it lost the life and
of barbarous and barren wilderness. No. The change consisted in
of bayonets, until the sky began to clear over the village.
of beauty? She was a golden-haired doll!"
of being ducked to death, and that Cly was so ferreted up and down, that
of buried treasure and other things submerged. It was appointed that the
of clothes ready), and so he emerged into the heavy mist of the heavy
of clothes; showing them how the patriot, Barsad, was a hired spy and
of confidence, the idea that he might need that old employment, and not
of contemplating cards:
"Of course."
Of course."
"Of course, it has been kept for you."
of Death--a raised finger--and they all added in words, "Long live the
of defiance in his manner, and said, "A last word, Mr. Darnay: you think
of disease that had brought him to these gloomy shades!
of dress: ligatures various in kind, but all deep of the one colour. And
of dull ice on his body and the diamonds into which the sun changed
of each nostril. In those two compressions, or dints, the only little
of eagles by sprinkling salt on the tails of the race. Him, Darnay heard
of either of them was the consideration that this was highly degrading
of ever moving again; leisurely, the new horses come into visible
of every one to join some other one, which led, especially among the
of Evremonde! Child of Evremonde! Any person but this miserable fool,
of Fate. The water of the fountain ran, the swift river ran, the day ran
offensive quality from every pore, had walked before him like three
offer his congratulations, was Sydney Carton. They had not been at home
offering black baskets of Dead Sea fruit to black divinities of the
offer my testimony. Monsieur the Marquis indicates me with his finger,
off her darling's bonnet when she came up-stairs, and touching it up
office of purveyors; the former carrying the money; the latter, the
office, putting my head in great extra danger, and I had better trust my
"Officer! look to that young lady. Help the gentleman to take her out.
officer of a coarse, dark aspect, presided over these.
official manner.
of foot-pads, always retained Jerry for this service: though it was
of France, as if the dragon's teeth had been sown broadcast, and
off to some suitably retired spot, and there hanged out of the way.
of Gaul, she had acquired such wonderful arts, that the woman and girl
of great acuteness and severity to the affections, the feelings,
of having any design in his head but to fly at anybody who touches his
of hearing as they came down, until they were in the raging flood once
of Heaven I will do it!" Thus, Doctor Manette. And when Jarvis Lorry saw
of Heaven. Sighs of the winds that blew over a little garden-tomb were
of heels very early in the scuffle, and sneak away."
of her appearance; but, she too was a determined woman in her different
of her darkly defined eyebrows over her toothpick by the breadth of a
of her father's imprisonment, until he had heard of it from herself,
of her father too, and who has a great affection for them both, I have
of her fine figure, and her superb moral endowments.
of her shining upon what I had lost, that I have beaten my head against
of her words. They were always 'My husband, my father, and my brother!
of her wrath--the listener could feel how white she was, without seeing
of him.
of him."
of himself which made the interview unlike any other that could have
of his chateau was opened to him.
of his musket. "Peace, aristocrat!"
"Of his own desire?"
"Of his own necessity. As he was, when I first saw him after they
of his solemn asseveration that he already considered the prisoner as
of his way than for ornament. As an emotion of the mind will express
of his words, "has golden hair and blue eyes. And we seldom have a child
of hoisting up men for lamps to show what he could be and do. Saint
of inconvenience. After bursting open a door of idiotic obstinacy with
of it."
of it, and hold on by it until the bargain was concluded. She always
of it, and turned it off with a laugh. After sipping his cognac to the
of it, for his brown stockings fitted sleek and close, and were of a
of it had reached the young lady's ears. But, by this time she trembled
of it in chains of straw, a tangle of shaggy wrapper, flapping hat, and
of its burden, he would have modestly withdrawn himself, but that the
of it seemed transparent. So he sat, with a steadfastly vacant gaze,
of it. There! Bless you, Mr. Cruncher! Think-not of me, but of the lives
"Of it? What?"
of Justice, and all society (except the scarecrows), the Fancy Ball
of land--a whole province of France--all France itself--lay under the
of life and death over the surrounding vulgar. From this room, many such
of light across his face, he looked up; and when he saw the glass his
of lips, "It must burn."
of little Lucie had been woven by the golden thread into the peaceful
of living in France, save those he had resigned; whereas, in England,
of mankind, bond and free, rich and poor, bad and good, he used his
of many soldiers. He is bound as before, and in his mouth there is
of me. As a wife and mother!"
of mine, who had no ear for music."
of money for the second time, and began knotting them up in her
of Monseigneur yet stood. Against two of the pillars were fastened two
of my child!"
of my helpless situation--as he was kind, and good, and useful to my
of Newgate, Jerry stood: aiming at the prisoner the beery breath of a
of observing the place in general.
of opening his mind to Doctor Manette. It was the close of the summer
of our Lord, could possibly doubt, that a system rooted in a frizzled
of paper. Then, traversing with the decided step of one who remembered
of people, by name. The frightful deeds that were to be soon done, were
of people, if some of our documents were seized or destroyed; and they
of people setting up the stairs that led to the court, carried him along
of pity kissed away by her husband from the soft blue eyes so loving of
of power enthroned on their distress. The raggedest nightcap, awry on
of readiness, who stopped all comers and goers, cross-questioned them,
     of receipt of the work.
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
of Republicans, and that he would be in effect the most desolate of
of resolution, and vigour of action. In his recovered energy he was
of retaliative temperament), to pitch himself head foremost over the
of road on the way between Soho and Clerkenwell, and Mr. Lorry, mindful
of roads fanned himself with his blue cap: feeling it mightily close
of roads with awe. The traveller had travelled far, and his feet were
of ruin, it was not a time to yield to such emotions. His lonely
of Saint Antoine, fast spreading as they came along, which stirred and
of Saint Pancras-in-the-Fields. His unpopularity with the blackguard
of self-destruction from years of priestly impostors, plunderers, and
of September, patriot emissaries of the law were in possession of
of shaking hands, always to be seen in any clerk at Tellson's who shook
of some tillers of the heavy lands adjacent to Paris, there were
of sparks and tore away into the streets, the same red hue was red in
of spirit, and became absorbed in it.
of stable building away among the trees. All else was so quiet, that the
of stateliness, the ghost of elegance, the ghost of pride, the ghost of
of taxes, and no rent at all, that Gabelle had got in those latter
often barely escaping from being run down. His man drove as if he were
often come back; he was really here. And yet his wife trembled, and a
often drowned the proceedings, that he had obtained the permission, and
often enough? All our lives, we have seen our sister-women suffer, in
often got up next morning to find the same boots covered with clay.
often the way with his tribe too.
of the blue cap without which he was nothing, still enlarged upon his
of the chase--now, found in hunting the people; now, found in hunting
of the chateau fountain seemed to turn to blood, and the stone faces
of the coach, added to the stillness of the night, made it very quiet
of the Creator, never reverses his transformations. "If thou be changed
of the day.
of the day; but, when the streets grew hot, the corner was in shadow,
of the day is achieved and it assembles to gossip at the fountain, all
of the door, and mounting nimbly to his place. "Gentlemen! In the king's
of the Dover mail thought to himself, that Friday night in November, one
of the family, I could even resolve to incommode you to that extent.
of the family, if you will not. But you must be fatigued. Shall we
of the fatal lamps swung, and there Madame Defarge let him go--as a cat
of the finest breeding wore little pendent trinkets that chinked as they
of the foreheads there, might have been mirrors reflecting the witness,
of the frenzied aspirations of the populace was, for imitations of
of their children laying their heads upon their pillows; in short, that
of their victims. With an inconsistency as monstrous as anything in this
of the Judge, as he said something fiercely: "Answer the questions put
of the long main staircase when he stopped, and stared at the roof and
of the long vacation. The clearance was effected at last; the Stryver
of the man whose life always seemed to him to have been stopped, like a
of them, but that Darnay put out a hand and seized him, crying:
of the midst of them, the ghostly face would rise, and he would accost
of them. I pass my whole life, miss, in turning an immense pecuniary
of the moon, the day came coldly, looking like a dead face out of the
of the mouth of her only child."
of them were dark, repressed, and revengeful, as they listened to the
of the narrative he had heard, he had heard his condemnation. He had
of the night shadows within. The real Banking-house by Temple Bar, the
of the night, straight and warm to his heart in its long bright rays.
of the night, when delay was the most to be dreaded.
of the Nobles were, and I expected that the matter would never be
of the peril in which our books and papers over yonder are involved. The
of the plane-tree moved upon his face, as softly as her lips had moved
of the polite company--would have found it hard to discover among
of the prison of the Conciergerie while I was contemplating the walls,
of the public way, and, with their heads low down and their hands high
of the Quarter so fast, and drew even these last dregs after them with
of the Republic, a notorious oppressor of the People. Back to the
Of the riders in the tumbrils, some observe these things, and all
of the roads joined the group.
of the shoulders. "The people from the market did it. Let them bring
of the Soho horizon. So, he pushed open the door with the weak rattle
of the soldiery there, and one of the police. The latter he was intimate
of the sun brought into strong relief, removed beauties of architecture
of the tall houses, in the wretched clothing that hung upon poles and
of the Tribunal's patriotic remembrance--until three days ago; when he
of the two ancient clerks. Those venerable and feeble persons were
of the water and the rolling of the Fancy Ball--when the one woman who
of the well-known good physician rent the hall. So capriciously were
of the whole subject."
of the writing of Doctor Manette. This is the writing of Doctor Manette.
of this distress."
of this poor man's mind. He once yearned so frightfully for that
of this time and of the previous time of which this is the natural
of three prisons, and among them of La Force. He could now assure Lucie
of times, but it would seem to have been an unusually thin wine that
of time to dwell upon the point. Confused, but sensible that something
of twelve, who was his express image. People understood that Tellson's,
Of unjust treatment in detention and hardship, and in cruel separation
of wave against wave, whose depths were yet unfathomed and whose forces
"Of what?" asked the Doctor.
"Of what trade?"
of which he has spoken. I admit that _I_ am a spy, and that it is
of whose chocolate for whose lips had once occupied three strong men
of wine. As he passed behind the counter, he took notice that the
of wine, Madame Defarge herself picked out the pattern on her sleeve
of, with the truth that he had done nothing for which he could justly
of women, by-and-bye."
of writing, and a light, he sat down to write until such time as the
of wrong."
of your interest. The things that you see here, are things to be seen,
of your not touching of it, and sticking to bread. If I, as a honest
of yourselves and your children. One or the other of you is for ever in
"Oh, botheration!" returned Sydney, with a lighter and more
"Oh, Carton, Carton, dear Carton!" cried little Lucie, springing up and
"Oh dear me!" cried Mr. Lorry, rubbing his chin, and looking at his
"Oh dear me, sir?" repeated Stryver, drawing back. "Oh dear you, sir?
"Oh dear yes! Yes. Oh yes, you're eligible!" said Mr. Lorry. "If you say
"Oh! Did I say that?"
"Oh father, father. What can this be! Hide Charles. Save him!"
"Oh, father, I should so like to be a Resurrection-Man when I'm quite
"Oh, for gracious sake!" cried Miss Pross, still wildly crying, "record
"Oh! Good evening, citizen," filling his glass. "Ah! and good wine. I
"Oh! If _that_ was beginning it--" said Mr. Lorry.
"Oh! if you come to prosperous, you are prosperous," said Mr. Lorry.
"Oh indeed!" said Mr. Lorry, bending down his ear, while his eye strayed
"Oh! I remember. Very well, very well."
"Oh! It is only a question of a few hours. I could go to Soho in the
"Oh, Solomon, dear Solomon!" cried Miss Pross, clapping her hands again.
"Oh! they'll find him guilty," said the other. "Don't you be afraid of
"Oh! You know I am English."
oiled, until the two tall candles on the table in the middle of the room
old air of avoidance and dread had lately passed over him, like a cold
old, and is in Tellson's confidence. As to the uncertain travelling, the
"Old Bailey spy," returned his informant. "Yaha! Tst! Yah! Old Bailey
oldest of men carried on the business gravely. When they took a young
old-fashioned bachelor blessing, before Somebody comes to claim his
old; gentle born and peasant born; all red wine for La Guillotine, all
old grudge again, is it, with your shameful impositions upon tradesmen!
old hangings had been nailed up before the windows, to deaden the
old seesaw Sydney. Up one minute and down the next; now in spirits and
old staircase alone, having asked no question of the servant; going thus
old. They kept him in a dark place, like a cheese, until he had the full
old voices impelling me upward, that I thought were silent for ever. I
omitted to be done, that had led to it--as if observers of the wretched
"O! most unhappily, I am!"
"O my father!" for he stood before her when she lifted up the eyes she
on."
"On a certain Friday night in November one thousand seven hundred and
On a day in August, when Mr. Stryver (after notifying to his jackal
On a night in mid-July, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-nine, Mr.
on any causes of complaint he could bring against her, rather than
on any other occasion, when the wigged gentleman who had all this time
on a par with the Country; which did very often disinherit its sons for
on as before. "For the sake of her child and her father, press upon her
On a steaming, misty afternoon, Mr. Lorry sat at his desk, and Charles
"On board of the packet-ship just now referred to, sir, and on the same
"Once."
once (and twice) the Tuileries, where the aspect of things rather
once in--even if it wos so."
once in sight of three men, whose heads were bent down close together at
Once more, the two spectators started, as he turned upon her with a
"Once. When he called at my lodgings in London. Some three years, or
one.
One and Two, separate and put yourselves at the head of as many of these
one another, with the hail driving in between them like a pigmy charge
"One can depart, citizen?"
"One can depart. Forward, my postilions! A good journey!"
"One cloudy moonlight night, in the third week of December (I think the
one fellow, to our knowledge, was poniarded on the spot for professing
one finger less than the merchant held up, whatever his number might be.
"One hundred and five, North Tower!"
"One Hundred and Five, North Tower."
"One Hundred and Five, North Tower;" and when he looked about him, it
one, in the breast of his inner coat, counted out the money for them,
one left. They had all dropped off. The spy had kept his eyes open,
one meaning in their faces. Carton was the first to speak:
one of a race proscribed, for that they had used their abolished
One of Liberty--the deluge rising from below, not falling from above,
One of the first considerations which arose in the business mind of Mr.
One of the most remarkable sufferers by the same axe--a woman--had asked
one of the theatre doors, there was a little girl with a mother, looking
one of those darkly clustered houses encloses its own secret; that every
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
one thousand seven hundred and eighty, the first letters written to you
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven,
one who died young. All my life might have been."
one who, like herself, is French by birth. And speaking of Gaspard (ah,
one will be accessible until dark."
"One word," the Doctor entreated. "Will you tell me who denounced him?"
One year and three months. During all that time Lucie was never
on flaring sheets of paper, seized him--would have torn him out of the
on for hours; soldiers and police often passing between them and the
on hers, "command yourself. What a disordered state you are in! The
on high above him. "I am the resurrection and the life, saith the Lord:
on him, and resigning himself to let it eat him away.
on him to speak a word or two of reassurance.
on his clothes, "if I ain't, what with piety and one blowed thing and
on his daughter, Miss Pross was to write, describing his having been
on his road. He wishes to see the fine world--the King, the Queen, and
on his way across a silent terrace, and saw for a moment, lying in the
on his way to dine with the Doctor. After several relapses into
on it, and on all this land."
on just as it had happened to light on his head after its removal, his
only add to her trouble. Don't speak of me to her. As I said to you when
only a plated one. He had known the last witness seven or eight years;
only crime was fidelity to himself and his family, stared him so
only elicited from his own wife a repetition of her last reply. "Tell
Only his daughter had the power of charming this black brooding from
only Madame Defarge in her seat, presiding over the distribution of
"Only one thing more," said Mr. Lorry, laying stress upon it as a
only stopped him in his running away, but lured him back again. They
only to ease his spent horse, but to wipe the mud from his face, and
"Only two sets of them."
only voice in Saint Antoine that blood and hurry had not changed. The
on men's shoulders, with a confused sea of red caps heaving about him,
on Monday, and here was Wednesday come. There had been more of early
on my friend Mr. Charles!"
"On my way yonder," said Madame Defarge, with a slight movement of
on no better man. This new denunciation will certainly not take place
on occasion.)
on of many footsteps in the outskirts of the crowd, so that it swells
on, or lying down chewing the cud of nothing particularly repaying their
on Saint Dunstan's side of Temple Bar, bursting in his full-blown way
"On some hay on the ground, with a cushion thrown under his head, lay a
On Sundays, Miss Pross dined at the Doctor's table, but on other days
on the billets; and the forehead of the woman who nursed her baby, was
on the calamity that has brought you among us. May it soon terminate
"On the contrary; I come direct."
on the evening when he and I first encountered, close to the same spot!"
on the fine Sunday afternoon.
"On the fourteenth."
on the hearth. There was a stool, and table, and a straw bed. There were
on the jury to come and do likewise. That, the evidence of these two
on the low watery grounds. Suddenly, the postilions exchange speech with
On the marriage morning, Doctor Manette had made it his one urgent and
On the night of the day on which he left the house, Mr. Lorry went into
on the other side of the little street in a purposeless way, that was
on the questioner when they had sought the ground.
on the scarf, and had no difficulty in arriving at the conclusion that I
On these few steps of his dangerous way, Charles Darnay had set his foot
On the steps of a church, awaiting the coming-up of the tumbrils, stands
On this certain fine Sunday, Mr. Lorry walked towards Soho, early in
On this second day, Mr. Lorry saluted him cheerfully by his name,
on water. When you go to Rome, do as Rome does. Rome will be a ugly
on which I am about to touch may not--"
on which the perspiration had started afresh while he recalled the
on written instructions, to spare the people, to give them what little
on you. How does she look?"
open air, was a large grindstone: a roughly mounted thing which appeared
open, and issued forth. Then, what submission, what cringing and
opened, and two figures rushed in, at sight of which he fell back in
opened, not only the glass window, but the lattice blind outside it, and
opening his eyes wider, and taking a long breath, "if I understand you,
opening it again, Defarge said, "Go on, Jacques."
"Openly, President."
open space and streets. The Defarges, husband and wife, The Vengeance,
opinion, Miss Pross resorted to the Good Republican Brutus of Antiquity,
opinion of your understanding."
opinions respectin' flopping has undergone a change, and that wot I only
opinion that indeed she never will hear anything else in this world."
opportunities to fix the problem.
opportunity had developed her into a tigress. She was absolutely without
opportunity of saying something to you that you wish to hear. You leave
opposing kinds of pride confronting one another, I can see, even in this
opposite, still looking at the ceiling of the court.
opposite to him at the same table, with his separate bottle of port
oppressor?"
or a great Stilton cheese, came running into the room in advance of the
or an every night look, at monsieur with the white head. "It is well.
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
or bag. What the unknown prisoner had written will never be read, but he
"Or both," said Darnay.
or captivity and Death in the dominant prison on the crag.
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
or Cinderella's Godmother: who would send out for a fowl, a rabbit,
order, or the manner. There was no cessation, but the regular moment's
originally?"
originally bad offence, as to justify any such offender's being carried
originated in an unwillingness to approach the subject, that Charles
originate them, I think; they are not to be communicated. I have
or intoxication, known, without doubt, to have led some persons to
or lodging-letting way--and marry her, against a rainy day. That's the
or lower than the summits of the two great towers of Notre-Dame, had any
or might be the last: these and many similar questions, in nowise
ornament, before the cavalcade had gone far down the Strand; and his
or other workshop. Rising and looking out of window at these harmless
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
orphan, there was wild excitement, patriotic fervour, not a touch of
or Solomon John?"
"--or twenty years hence--"
or two. Steeping the towels in the water, and partially wringing them
or were being forwarded to his destination in a cage, he could not have
"Or you to me," says Sydney Carton. "Keep your eyes upon me, dear child,
"O show me the place, my father, and I will go there every day."
"O, sir, at another time you shall know my name, and who my mother was,
ostensible calling.
ostentatiously rough dress, and probably with his usual demeanour,
ostrich. The beach was a desert of heaps of sea and stones tumbling
other door of French construction. To exclude the cold, one half of this
other functionaries less fortunate, that night and other nights, whom
other men. He was not suspected or brought in question, any more than if
other of the two, being angry likewise, struck the man in like manner
others, and those to others, the neighbouring streets resounded with the
others, directed by lookers-on up at high windows, darted here and
Other seven faces there were, carried higher, seven dead faces, whose
others. High vaulted rooms with cool uncarpeted floors, great dogs upon
other side of him; then, upward at the speaker.
others--if there are not already--banishing all emigrants, and
other symbolical tears.
otherwise; but, they were naturally large, and looked unnaturally so.
otherwise--'" Carton looked at the pen and saw it was trailing off into
otherwise strongly in favour of the argument, that some brute animals
otherwise than safe and well here, thank God; but I have been so put out
otherwise, that a man in good clothes should be going to prison, was no
Otherwise, the governor would not be marched to the Hotel de Ville for
ought to have been finished long ago. Let it be."
Our booked passenger showed in a moment that it was his name. The guard,
our confidence in your skill assures us that you will ascertain it for
our connection our customers. He was a French gentleman; a scientific
our eyes. 'Come on!' says the chief of that company, pointing to the
"Our family; our honourable family, whose honour is of so much account
our friend or from yourself?"
our pleasure, whatever it was. Why need I speak of my father's time,
Our relations were business relations, but confidential. I was at that
our said serene, illustrious, excellent, and so forth, and those of the
out.
"Out?"
out after the rest, and had looked on until the coach drove away. He now
out, and then gathering the heavy handkerchief under her arm in a serene
out and was gone. The Court, from that exclusive inner circle to its
out, "as anything wot I have ever said or done should be wisited on my
out! Bring him to the lamp!"
outer courtyard of the Bastille. There, against an angle of a wall, he
outermost rotten ring of intrigue, corruption, and dissimulation, was
out for him, took to her knitting again, and hummed a little song over
out, for she saw a figure standing in the room.
out, he folded them on his head in a manner hideous to behold, sat down
out in a line or so and posted it in the Bank windows, for all who ran
out in his arms, imploringly, "O my dear friend! My husband!"
out loudly, "Down with the emigrant!"
out loudly for assistance without moving.
out of a grave.
out of its present use. I see a beautiful city and a brilliant people
out of the Circumference, and that he was to be kept from flying out of
out of the group: "I am glad to have brought you off with honour, Mr.
Out of the open country, in again among ruinous buildings, solitary
Out of the wine-shop into the street, out of the street into a
out of this, is, to put you all in the wrong."
out on the staircase, first shutting and locking the door and taking
out promenading, who looked at them in the coolest manner (as if they
out--she had a fear of my going, though I had none--and when I was
Outside Tellson's--never by any means in it, unless called in--was an
"Outside the blinds. Open the blinds."
outside the chateau as to interrogate that face of his. The nephew
outside the door of the wine-shop, shattered like a walnut-shell.
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.
outside, too, it beat the walls with a deep, hoarse roar, from which,
outspoken reliefs of her heavy mind.
out, there! Spies! Pull 'em out, there! Spies!"
out the sky."
out, to such pasture as could be found by the roadside. In the church
out to their own carriages--ah! equally like smoke, if not more so.
out, when some brighter genius proposed instead, its being escorted to
out with a run, the hoops had burst, and it lay on the stones just
out with care. Having abundance of time for his usual methodical
over a bottle of wine, that the arrest has taken place. He left the
over a hand at cards: "Sheep of the prisons, emissary of Republican
overflowed, to the door of the house. It was not opened immediately, in
overflowing out into the adjacent streets, and along the river's bank,
overhead: all scared, all lost, all wondering and amazed, as if the Last
over him to show where he lies. Otherwise, the place will be quickly
over his labour.
over it, and growing down hill almost to his broad, blunt nose. It was
overlooked in his prison of the Abbaye--in fact, had rather passed out
over--say at eight to-night--come you to me, in Saint Antoine, and we
overshadowed his face:
over-swinging lamps.
overtaking you. Will you please to enter the carriage?'
Over the chair they had thrown a red flag, and to the back of it they
over the counter? Yet such things were. Tellson's had whitewashed the
over the floor, as if there had been a struggle.
over their limbs and bodies; men in all sorts of rags, with the stain
over the landscape. "_I_ go through no streets and past no fountains.
over them all, as if they had been mere rats come out of their holes.
over the network of fine nerves about his mouth and nose; Defarge
Over the prisoner's head there was a mirror, to throw the light down
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
own."
own age, sees and loves you at my age, loves her mother broken-hearted,
own counsel, and to keep his hat cocked over his eyes. He had eyes that
own heart, do you feel quite certain?"
own; he shall be taken every conceivable care of; during the next
own safety, so that it could not but appear now.
own street. Let me take your arm, Miss Pross. This is not a good city,
own symbols, it will always be as plain to her as the sun. Confide in
own, took a nimble spring upward, and came down in a fantastic dancing
"O you will let me hold your brave hand, stranger?"
oyster out of his saucer. "Ah! I think so. I believe you."
paced faster, to draw his mind with him from that latter repetition.
paces by four and a half." The prisoner walked to and fro in his cell,
pacifically remarked, "He is so much in your mind, see you, madame."
packet, if he wanted a handy fellow, and the prisoner had engaged him.
page at http://pglaf.org
pages in the history of France.
paid for it, and could afford to pay for it; when his ease was suddenly
paid for what he had drunk, and took his leave: taking occasion to say,
paid for what he had had, perplexedly counted his change, and asked, as
paid me for it; which she certainly should never have done, you may take
paid there, according to solemn inscription in the little village, until
painful to Miss Manette to have the task of being explicit with you. You
painful to you to find yourself mistaken, it might be painful to Doctor
painted up, only the leanest scrags of meat; the baker, the coarsest of
pallet-bed and take some rest. He needed no persuasion, and was soon
paper; Hunger was repeated in every fragment of the small modicum of
paper in its hiding-place.
papers."
papers went up-stairs into a Barmecide room, that always had a great
paper to write on. "Is this the emigrant Evremonde?"
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
parapet, and crush a man or two below.
parchments into the banking-house air. Your lighter boxes of family
parchment-yellow, that it would have been hard to say which was which.
"Pardon me; certainly it was I who said so, but you naturally think so.
"Pardon me! I mean, not a long time on the journey; a long time
"Pardon, Monseigneur; he swung by the chain of the shoe--the drag."
"Pardon, Monsieur the Marquis!" said a ragged and submissive man, "it is
Paris at this present time, no matter what things, is next to an
parricide. One old man says at the fountain, that his right hand, armed
particular case, and left nothing else connected with it to be looked
particular friends, pointing out the chain with his blue cap. Some
particular, Monseigneur had the other truly noble idea, that the world
particular occasion. He tried to prepare himself in vain; perhaps the
particular state visit http://pglaf.org
parties in common sense; I can only find it for myself. I suppose sense
parties to the full-bodied wine and the lie, excused him for the
parting without ill-blood on either side."
partly opened the blind, and put his hand upon the Doctor's arm, and
"Partly through paying me to help you, I suppose. But it's not worth
partly to avoid a domestic spy, they kept no servant; the citizen and
part. My present name, though but slightly changed from my mother's, is
part of it."
part of the quay by the Seine for the refreshment of the frosty air,
parts of Paris, would be bad enough now; but, at that time, it was vile
part, such a confidence as I have ventured to lay before you, you will
part, the result of affliction. The less it was occupied with healthy
passage across the Channel?"
passages below, even though assisted off with mutton pies and ale.
passages, the iron gates were being closed with a jar and a rattle,
passed, an excited orator, mounted on a stool, was addressing an excited
passed from it as swiftly as a change will sweep over a hill-side on a
passed, had a wary eye for all gregarious assemblages of people, and
passed her over the seats in the hall to a raised place, where he, by
passed in and out at every doorway, looked from every window, fluttered
passed in travelling by any straight road to any true earthly end, were
passed some ten minutes in tortures of suspense, and were now concluding
passed the day in the country, and the Doctor was quite restored. On the
passed through his rooms to the remote region of the Circumference of
passengers beat loud enough perhaps to be heard; but at any rate, the
passengers squashing along by its side. They had stopped when the coach
passenger started to the consciousness of daylight, and found that the
passengers, who immediately scrambled into the coach, shut the door, and
passengers would admonish him to pull up the window, draw his arm
passenger--with an arm drawn through the leathern strap, which did what
passenger would then start to himself, and lower the window, to get the
passers-by, as Old Bailey spies, and wreaking vengeance on them. Chase
passing it and preceding it on the road, would order its horses in
"Pass that torch slowly along these walls, that I may see them," said
"Pass this way, then."
pass through that part, to get at the other. My memory is circumstantial
"Pastime," said madame, still looking at him with a smile while her
past twenty. Her hair was torn and ragged, and her arms were bound to
Patches of poor rye where corn should have been, patches of poor peas
patch of light from the lamps, and the hedge at the roadside retreating
patients in the ante-chambers of Monseigneur. Projectors who had
patriotism? None whatever.
patriot: John Barsad, gentleman, by name. The story of his pure soul was
patriots as you can. Where is my wife?"
patriots in rough red caps were smoking, drinking, and sleeping, by
"Patriots!" said Defarge, in a determined voice, "are we ready?"
patriots, the latter far outnumbering the former; and that while ingress
patron; "you are a good boy!"
pattern. Enough! Now, my dear Lucie," drawing his arm soothingly round
pause, in the utterance of these sounds.
pausing in his work. He never looked at the figure before him, without
pay and employment, to lay traps? Oh dear no. Or to do anything? Oh dear
peace and at rest, I cause you to think of your useful life laid waste,
peacefullest man's face ever beheld there. Many added that he looked
"Peace, little Vengeance," said Madame Defarge, laying her hand with
peasant a boy. The only consideration that appeared to affect the mind
peasant, gone to his benefactor Death, had felt the weight when his lord
peck at, on a heap of stones? Had the birds, carrying some grains of it
peculiar delicacy to the complexion, it was the National Razor which
peculiar Ear of a place, that as Mr. Lorry stood at the open window,
peculiar inclination towards the left cheek; expression, therefore,
peculiar inclination towards the left cheek which imparts a sinister
peering up the chimney, struck and prised at its sides with the crowbar,
penitential den once set apart for interviews with the House, was now
people, carried by another current, would have rushed at him with
people in all walks of life.
people in possession of the house had let them in at the gate, and they
people poured cheerfully out as he passed, and went chatting home. At
people say anything; after the first cry, they had been silent, and they
people's enemies and insulters, was coming into Paris under a guard
people should not see it and take it from us--I say, we were so robbed,
people, was very difficult. A numerous medley of men and women, not
people who had had, for a few years, some vague misgiving in them that
perceptible through the raging storm, nothing audible in it--suddenly
perceptibly crestfallen.
perception, beforehand, that the spot where the only visitor they were
perception of the pain of being monotonously haunted by one sad idea,
perches--when the cry seemed to go up, all over the city, "Bring him
perfect gentleman, would seem, in these days, a ridiculous exaggeration.
"Perfectly."
"Perfectly so, madame," replied the spy. "She is going to be married."
Perfectly still and silent, and not even fallen back in her chair, she
perform her first duty, and, whatever else she did or neglected, above
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
"Perhaps. According to its nature. You can say what it is."
Perhaps a little angry with himself, as well as with the barrister, Mr.
"Perhaps at my wine-shop?"
"Perhaps he obtained it as his last and utmost precaution against evil,
perhaps not) upon the joker's heart. The joker rapped it with his
Perhaps. Perhaps, see the great crowd of people with its rush and roar,
Perhaps the following silence, perhaps some latent disclosure in the
perhaps you will take a verbal one?"
perils had thickened about him fast, and might thicken faster and faster
periodical change into tiger form was either just going off, or just
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.
permitted to come and go as a privileged person here; that I might
perplexed distinctions."
perquisitions into all the glutinous little glasses near madame, fell
perseverance. In the fair city of this vision, there were airy galleries
persisted in taking her meals at unknown periods, either in the lower
personal danger there; the other was to the Doctor, confiding Lucie and
personal influence so wisely, that he was soon the inspecting physician
person could have rendered no greater homage to the efficacy of an
person of this plotting and indignant refugee; and Monseigneur looked at
person referred to.
"Persons' bodies, ain't it, father?" asked the lively boy.
person to whom they were both opposed, and whom either of them would
Philosophers who were remodelling the world with words, and making
philosophy, graciously intend to live?"
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
physician of the Republic would deserve better still of the Republic by
physician, originally an expert surgeon, who within the last year or two
picking her teeth with her toothpick, coughed another grain of cough,
picking out transparent places, and showing where balustrades, arches,
picking their way on foot through the black mud and offal of his
picking up French, and French law, and other French crumbs that we
pick out the richest and gayest. Say! Would you not?"
"Pick up that, philosopher and vendor of wine," said the Marquis,
picture of that younger elderly gentleman from Tellson's, who had looked
picturesque confusion of houses and cathedral shone bright in the light
pieces.
pieces of the cask, licking, and even champing the moister wine-rotted
pieces; then, rang the bell, and ordered in another.
pierced by the light within him.
pikes, and carried the three spoils of the day, in Wolf-procession
pillars and corners, to get a sight of him; spectators in back rows
pillow round the worn face of a little boy, and he said, with a radiant
pillows at all, unless the prisoner's head was taken off. That head
pillows; that, they never could tolerate the idea of their wives laying
pillow was wet with wasted tears.
pith and marrow; and however late at night he sat carousing with Sydney
pitted against you to-night. Is the teaboard still there, Lucie? I can't
pity. If she had ever had the virtue in her, it had quite gone out of
place, constraining my mind not to wander from the task. Where I make
place for echoes, and a very harbour from the raging streets.
place for me. Take my arm, sir."
place of concealment for it. Some pitying hand may find it there, when I
place, or space. He was so much too big for Tellson's, that old clerks
places with him, and would you have been looked at by those blue eyes as
place under the admiring Heavens. Deep would have been the blot upon
place yesterday. An incidental allusion, purposely thrown out, to
plain case, and had not a weak spot in it. He called himself for the
plaintiff, there was no getting over his evidence, the counsel for
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
plaiting the lashes of their whips; leisurely, the old postilions count
plane-tree--and he said it in the natural pursuit of the topic in hand,
plane-tree in the garden!
plane-tree, talking, she kept his glass replenished. Mysterious backs
playfully, or Miss Pross, sorely hurt, would have retired to her own
playing with limp cards and yellow dominoes; of the one bare-breasted,
pleasantly in many an airy steeple over France, should be melted into
pleasantly to a little proposal that I wish to make for our mutual
Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
pleased.
pleased to call it) than Mr. Cruncher did. So her manner of marketing
please myself: on the whole, I think I can afford to please myself. She
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK
pleasure of seeing Monsieur and Madame Defarge again. For some minutes
plots in the prisons, the wildest of all pointed at emigrants who were
"Plots. Though the just Heaven knows that I am innocent of any. Is it
pluck them to pieces and despoil them for your own advantage, you would
plundered to that degree that when we chanced to have a bit of meat, we
pocket, emulative of the noble and chaste fashion set by Monseigneur, to
pointed out.
points to the lashes of their whips; the valet walked by the horses; the
poisons in themselves, I would not have administered any of those.
polished Marquis who was murdered," said one. "Happy to say, I never
polish in a day or two. Your deeds got into extemporised strong-rooms
politeness; "I would not be sure of that. A good opportunity for
Pont-Neuf, reckoning in her mind the number of indispensable purchases
"Pooh!" rejoined Miss Pross; "you were a bachelor in your cradle."
"Pooh! You'd have thought!" said Miss Pross; and Mr. Lorry left off.
poor creature of misuse as you know him to be--he would have been
poor fellow, and she married her lover, that she might tend and comfort
poor Gaspard! It was cruel, cruel!), it is a curious thing that she is
poor ignorant soul and his poor reduced body together. The prison on the
poor in family. Which Farmer-General, carrying an appropriate cane with
poor lady had suffered so intensely before her little child was born,
poor little seamstress, who was with you in La Force."
poor things well out o' this, and never no more will I interfere with
poor young lady, by laying a brawny hand upon his chest, and sending him
populace became one. At last, when he appealed by name to Monsieur
populace is turning round, to come on into the place of execution, and
popular game, by a lady who had bestowed her name upon it.)
popular high-shouldered shaggy black spencer looked, in that attitude,
popular street character of the time, was impressed as an additional
portentously elastic swing with them.
"Porter wanted!"
Positively. Ever live by cheating at play? Never. Ever live by play? Not
positively find the prisoner Guilty, and make an end of him, whether
possess the kind of information necessary; I do not possess the kind of
possible for talk and envy, was the general desire.
Possibly at home, but of a certainty impossible for handmaid to
"Possibly, but indeed I don't know, although they stood whispering very
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
postilion cracked his whip, and they clattered away under the feeble
Posting Date: November 28, 2009
postmaster, when he had thanked him, and stood beside him in the yard.
posture. "Sydney, I rather despair of making myself intelligible to you,
poured boiling oil, melted lead, hot resin, wax, and sulphur; finally,
poured his liquor in with his right; as soon as that was done, he
poured out and drank another glassful.
poverty and obscurity could not save her. Physical diseases, engendered
poverty-stricken, purposeless, accidental manner, quite natural and
powder, and ball, bars of iron and wood, knives, axes, pikes, every
powers of self-deceit, the interest was, at the root of it, Ogreish.
power to prevent this arrest."
practical character, he looked, under those circumstances.
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
practice, behind his compeers in this particular, any more than in the
practised, the ingenuity of the hands, for the ingenuity of the mental
Pray discuss it with me; pray enable me to see it a little more clearly,
prayed to Him."
prayers, the led cow, trying for a breakfast among the weeds at its
Pray excuse me!"
"'Pray excuse me,' said I. 'Under the circumstances, no.'
"Pray forgive me, Miss Manette. I break down before the knowledge of
"Pray," said Mr. Lorry, in a soothing tone, bringing his left hand from
"Pray take a seat, sir." In a very clear and pleasant young voice; a
preach."
precaution, and may be a necessary preparation. But care, care, care!
precaution, by giving out that the Doctor was not well, and required a
preceded, went from his carriage, sufficiently disturbing the darkness
precious _protgs_. No, gentlemen; he'll always show 'em a clean pair
precious time) of scarcely any one but myself, if any one. And shall
precipitation, that now upon the third night of the autumn month
precisely remember where it was. What was it? No business of anybody's.
prematurely cold), and on his honest and courageous face there was a
prematurely white. A hundred times the dozing passenger inquired of this
preparations having been very simple and few, the Doctor, Mr. Lorry,
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
preparings of the way. My heart is touched now, by many remembrances
presence.
presented, but indistinct and withheld--to alarm Lucie into saying, as
presented herself at the carriage-door.
presented him breathless to Monsieur the Marquis.
presented himself while they were sitting under the plane-tree, but he
presented "The Emigrant Evremonde."
presenting my case?"
present in question is a mincing Fool?"
presently.
presently. Then, we will take him a ride into the country, and dine
present mode. I never saw the mode. I have had a pattern in my hand." He
present, precisely in the usual manner, and as if there were nothing
present, you may buy your food, and nothing more."
preserved any definite remembrance of it, there could be no doubt that
preserve the innocent deceit of which they were profoundly unsuspicious.
"President, I indignantly protest to you that this is a forgery and
pressing emergency, Miss Pross hailed it with joy. She and Jerry had
Pressing his hand to his bewildered head, Darnay sat down at the table.
pressure of business imposed on the Tribunal by the multitude of
pretence of being asleep. With no more definite purpose than to escape
pretending to belong to them, but all nearly or remotely of the order of
pretty boy from two to three years old, in her carriage.
pretty desire to convey to him that she felt how much older and wiser he
pretty dress; "and so it was for this, my sweet Lucie, that I brought
pretty head from his shoulder as you have it now, till you see me again!
"Pretty witness," he muttered, looking down into his glass. "I have had
prevailing Republican colour, in winding and tramping through them, as
previously uttered a word.
price of his luxury was; he has paid the price."
pride of Beggars, like that tutor-fellow. He was also in the habit of
principally occupied with the cares of other people; and perhaps
prison?--Come, once again. Never? Yes. How many times? Two or three
prison? Didn't see what that had to do with it. Never in a debtors'
prisoner a hundred times worse. Lastly, came my Lord himself, turning
prisoner by as many of both sexes as could rush at him, that after
prisoner came on board the packet-ship in which I returned, and made the
prisoner had, for longer than that, been in the habit of passing and
prisoner. How say you? Are they very like each other?"
prisoner is. These are not the hands she knew, this is not the face
prisoner made an effort to rally his attention. As he looked at Carton
prisoners--dates, names, complaints, and prayers. Upon a corner stone
prisoners of both sexes. The women were seated at a long table, reading
prisoner's pockets, over and over again. He had taken these lists from
prisoner's schemes, and, struck with horror, to disclose them to his
prisoner whether it was not true that he had lived many years in
prison lamps should be extinguished.
prison of La Force. Will you cause that to be done for me?"
"Prison of the Abbaye, Paris.
prison of the Abbaye would have got him on so far. His difficulty at the
prison on the crag, the little village in the hollow, the peasants at
prison to that house, was apparent to them. They heard him mutter,
prison wall. At the appointed hour, he emerged from it to present
prison wall, in the midst of whom was the wood-sawyer hand in hand with
private, because Farmer-Generals were rich, and Monseigneur, after
privilege of filling up blank forms for the consignment of any one
privileges to the infamous oppression of the people. Charles Evremonde,
privilege that I in my own time have known the boldest people afraid
probable; almost a wreck, it is possible; though we will hope the best.
Probably, Monsieur Gabelle passed a long night up there, with the
probably unimagined at that time in the brains of the doers. How could
probably walking in this direction, we followed, in the hope of
problem of carelessness and recklessness. He spoke of him, in short, not
proceeded, as he showed that the Accused was his first friend on his
proceeded to offer it to him. The lion took it with care and caution,
proceedings; nobody had known of it. He was unrobed, and was none the
procession of negro cupids, several headless and all cripples, were
Produced by Judith Boss
produced, would show the prisoner to have been furnished with lists of
professed unbeliever in ghosts should be frightened by a ghost story.
Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
Professors of the provinces, Monsieur Orleans, and the rest, to call
profitable, and as an elegant translator who brought something to his
profligates; in the distant burial-places, reserved, as they wrote upon
profound secret, even from my wife; and this, too, I resolved to state
progress of a mob.
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
promise?"
promise on it of healthy life or wholesome aspirations.
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
proofs, would produce against him that fatal register, and would quash
proper, on the other side of it, with the bottles and glasses ready to
property and three boys, who had nothing particularly shining about them
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
propitiate, by tone and manner, "have the dear child here, and our
proposal to take Miss Manette to Vauxhall Gardens; that failing, to
proposed to the young lady, and, between ourselves, I am by no means
prospect yet, of our getting out of this place?"
prospered there," he observed then, turning his calm face to his nephew
prosperous and happy, in that England which I shall see no more. I see
prosper with him, Mr. Lorry. He'd never have no good of it; he'd want
Pross and her protector, though they had been all ears. But, they had no
Pross, I don't approach the topic with you, out of curiosity, but out of
Pross, in her breathing. "Nevertheless, you shall not get the better of
Pross much nearer to the lower Angels than many ladies immeasurably
Pross, the Doctor, and Mr. Lorry, Charles Darnay made some mention of
Pross, walked at his side.
Pross, whether it is good for Doctor Manette to have that suppression
protection, directly down upon the old prisoner's head. The favour was
protection. I must see Lorry."
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
protestations that she was the most admirable and marvellous of
proud of its incommodiousness. They were even boastful of its eminence
proud of its smallness, proud of its darkness, proud of its ugliness,
proud too, sometimes. They plunder us, outrage us, beat us, kill us; but
proved to be in the prisoner's handwriting; but that it was all the
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
provident remittances to Tellson's, were always to be heard of there
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
providing some other entertainment for itself, another brighter
"Provincial," said the spy.
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.
provocation. Yet, a French Tellson's could get on with these things
public, because Monseigneur could not make anything at all of them, and
public diversion, are a number of women, busily knitting. On one of the
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
public enemy was not a correspondence of to-day, or of yesterday, or
pulled hard at their chains, and reared impatient to be loosed.
pulled up the window. "He may come close; there's nothing wrong."
pulley; at night, when the lamplighter had let these down, and lighted,
pulse and the heart. There was life, and no more. Looking round as I
purloiner of forty shillings and sixpence was put to Death; the holder
purpose in the arm and a kind of inspiration in the eyes, which not only
purpose, seemed to have nothing less on his mind than the subject of
purpose, that he recruited his finances, as just now observed.
purpose) was commenced without delay in the kitchen fire; and the tools,
pursued Carton, "you have fallen into your rank, and I have fallen into
pursued the spy, "that I have the honour of cherishing some interesting
pursuing this family to annihilation, and I have not his reason for
pursuits.
put any separation between her and you, I could or would breathe a
put her gently from him, and looked at her unconscious mother.
"Put it on, put it on," said the other. "Call wine, wine; and finish
put it to this other gentleman, so much your junior, whether he can
put the old man's hand to his lips, he did not part from him then. He
put to the bar before Charles Darnay's name was called. All the fifteen
quaint wig by a pair of moist bright eyes that it must have cost
qualified to free it slowly (if such a thing is possible) from the
quality of her shrieks, never stumbled in the distinctness or the order
quality, were so well cooked and so well served, and so neat in their
quarrel with _your_ light answer."
Quarter, near the Banking-house. As there was no business objection to
Quarter to the wine-shop door, had been suddenly fired, a fast-spreading
question:
questionable closeness of attention; and whenever Mr. Lorry's eye caught
question and by her aspect.
questioner.
question. It would seem to be always the same question, for, it is
question of rebuilding Tellson's. In this respect the House was much
question to him: but as no help came from that quarter, they turned back
Quick! Call assistance!"
Quickly, but with hands as true to the purpose as his heart was, Carton
quickly; the sun and the Marquis going down together, there was no glow
quickness and skill, in such a business as he had in his secret mind,
"Quick to see what happened! If a girl, doll or no doll, swoons within a
quiet, and Lucie was more at ease than she had been.
quietly at his nephew, with his snuff-box in his hand. Once again he
quiet pause was audibly expressive of people out of breath, and holding
quiet street-corner was the sunny part of his life.
quite a liberal offer; "or I'll out and announce him."
"Quite, my child."
quite out of his reach. Even now, when I believe he is more hopeful of
quite sure, no new affections of mine, and no new duties of mine, will
race die out!'
radiance over great London, than on that night when it found them still
raging of the conflagration, a red-hot wind, driving straight from the
rains, and then it ran, by many eccentric fits, into the houses. Across
raised in frightened compassion, if not even to keep him off and
raised them, and saw her face. The two spectators started forward,
raise his eyes. His chin dropped upon his hand, and his white hair
Ranelagh; that unaccountably failing too, it behoved him to present
rapacious license and oppression over again, and it will surely yield
rapidly, but not so rapidly as to come up with Monseigneur on the road.
rapidly swallowing France; but, his morning's chocolate could not so
rapid. The corner echoed and re-echoed with the tread of feet; some,
rarity--and stood waiting until the countryman had made his breakfast.
rarity--Monsieur Paris, as it was the episcopal mode among his brother
rather like. How the virtuous servant, Cly, was his friend and partner,
Rather wishing his modest adjective away, Mr. Lorry replied, "No, no,
rather would I never see you again, dear Solomon, though I have ever
rattled at their racks, the dogs barked, and the owl made a noise with
rays have even yet discovered it, as a point in space where anything
read at his father's grave, arose in his mind as he went down the dark
reader, Madame Defarge never taking hers from the prisoner, Defarge
read--first to himself and then aloud: "'Wait at Dover for Mam'selle.'
reading-chair empty.
read out by the gaolers of the various prisons to their prisoners. The
read with undergraduates as a sort of tolerated smuggler who drove a
ready? Come then!"
real business of the past day, the real strong rooms, the real express
reality of mist and rain on his cheek.
"Really, is bad enough," returned Miss Pross, "but better. Yes, I am
"Really, Mr. Barsad, I can't say, if you can't."
"Really, Mr. Carton," returned the other, oddly disconcerted, "I have
"Really, then?" said Mr. Lorry, as an amendment.
really was, and approached his second and last point. He felt it to
"Really? Well; but don't cry," said the gentle Mr. Lorry.
rearing her in the belief that her father was dead--No, don't kneel! In
reason. While one external cause, and that a reference to his long
reason. You are not going out, I hope?"
reassuring words, as the stony manner of all the three impressed itself
recalling him from the vagrancy into which he always sank when he
"Recall it."
recall some occasions on which her power had failed; but they were few
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
received such a check from the inscrutability of Carton,--who was a
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
receive him, with every refinement of manner known to the time, and with
receive them.
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
Receiving no answer, he tore his hair, and beat his feet upon the
reckoning?" said Carton. On his answering in the affirmative, "Then
recommended that your aid should be invited. Your reputation is high,
recommend under the circumstances, "How do you do, Mr. Stryver? How do
reconcilement to the inevitable, would have been one of absolute bliss,
recovered self-possession, he thought, "There is but another now," and
red caps and with pipes in their mouths, who sat down on the bed.
red cap, the rough medley dress of home-spun stuff and hairy skins of
reddened as of old; then, had gleamed trenchant in the morning sunshine;
reddening, "that I will hear no disrespectful word of that young lady
redistribution.
redress; and tortured by seeking assistance and power in vain."
red, which way his face would be turned, whether he would be the first,
refection, had dropped into a doze, when a loud murmur and a rapid tide
reference to George Washington, which was altogether too extravagant and
reference to the scarecrows in the rags and nightcaps elsewhere (and not
referred to the brother.
refer to it within himself."
refer to the period of his suffering. It gave her a strange and new
refilled, and the time was, at best, short to the lock-up hour, when the
reflection, simultaneously with his coming against the wall.)
refreshment, and the prisoner withdrew to the back of the dock, and sat
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
refuse. There are pen and ink and paper on this table. Is your hand
regard; I have done nothing good or serviceable to be remembered by!'
regarding him was whispered in the echoes, which has been whispered by
regarding this Doctor with any sensibility. I must act for myself,
Regard it as a matter of business--business that must be done. Now
regions, or in her own room on the second floor--a blue chamber, to
registered to-morrow."
regretted father. Now comes the difference. If your father had not died
regular.
regular series of gradations, and coaxed her to lay her drooping head
rejection of the three lumps of bread-and-cheese had quite bloated Mr.
rejoicing, and a festival. She had seen the houses, as she came along,
rejoinder at him; "no, Sydney, it's my duty to tell you--and I tell you
relapse come about? Is there danger of another? Could a repetition of it
relations conduced to social morality--was at least the greatest reality
relationship. I pass to worse news. Darnay has been arrested again."
release, and history, as should serve him for an introduction to
Release Date: January, 1994 [EBook #98]
released by the storm that had burst their tomb, were carried high
released that night. The lights were nearly all extinguished in the
release from his long imprisonment; that, the accused had remained in
relieving her of her brother," said Sydney Carton.
relinquished them of his own will, thrown himself on a world with no
relinquish. What is it but a wilderness of misery and ruin!"
relocked), I had heard cries proceeding from an upper chamber. I was
reluctant to turn his thoughts towards the dangerous ground of old,
"Rely upon the patriotic Jury, dear citizeness. I answer for my
remained immovable close to him; remained immovable close to him through
remained on the step, half in the coach and half out of; they remained
remained so. The voice of the submissive man who had spoken, was flat
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
remarkable appearance in respect of the absolute whiteness of his hair,
remarking on the efficacy of cold immersion in bringing refractory
remember."
remember a certain famous occasion when I was more drunk than--than
remember, and I had better not take it into the prison."
remembered as Defarge. He noticed that she once or twice whispered in
remembered, that as she pressed her hands on Sydney's arm and looked up
remember, in the great service you rendered me that day?"
"Remember? No, I don't remember. It was so very long ago."
remember nothing of this man? Look at him. Look at me. Is there no old
"Remember these words to-morrow: change the course, or delay in it--for
remembrance. Besides that, his loss of himself grew out of it. Not
remembrance of a Home long desolate, while your poor heart pined away,
reminded of that expression.
removed from them, a group of soldiers. "Help, gentlemen--officers! The
rendered and so free from any mercenary taint, he had such an exalted
Rendered in a manner desperate, by her state and by the beckoning of
"--rendered it necessary that I should go to Paris, there to communicate
rendered suit and service to Stryver in that humble capacity.
rendering some service to her who had rendered so much to him. "All
render it unlikely that he was one of them?"
render the thanks of his heart; it closed under the gaoler's hand; and
renounce them."
repassing between France and England, on secret business of which
repeated (though in stronger characters) on her fair young face, that it
repeating their names to himself. The worst of the strife was over.
repented them in poverty and obscurity often before. In an unselfish
replied, "One must have patience, my dear!" Three turnkeys who entered
repressed all day, and would say that her sole reliance, under Heaven,
"Repression is the only lasting philosophy. The dark deference of fear
reproachfully in the face, that, as he walked to and fro in the Temple
reproach himself, but had uniformly forgotten himself for their joint
Republic!"
Republic."
Republican? Eh?"
republicans as yesterday and the day before, and to-morrow and the day
Republicans, if anything prevented him from enjoying the pleasure of
Republic One and Indivisible, of Liberty, Equality, Fraternity, or
Republic. Woe to the man who played tricks with _that_ Army, or got
reputation, coming and going at odd times, I should ask that I might be
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
required to officiate "frizzled, powdered, in a gold-laced coat, pumps,
required to prove the rule that the sparrows in the plane-tree behind
require, I will observe immediately."
requiring nicety in such obscurity. Yet, work of that kind was being
rescued him from these caresses for the moment. Five were to be tried
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
resemblance between him and Lucie was very strong at such times, and as
resemblance I detected between you and me, an unornamental) piece of
resentful suspicions of his uncle, and in the aversion with which his
reservation of their joint lives on his mind. It was a hard matter to
reserved expression of Tellson's Bank. He had a healthy colour in his
reserved, that I cannot undertake to say even that."
reserve my place. Wait for nothing but to have my place occupied, and
resignation. If, for a moment, he did feel resigned, then his wife and
resolute, and guarded struggle with an unseen assailant, was not to be
resolute not to tell her what impended (he had been half moved to do it,
resolution and a set purpose; a man not desirable to be met, rushing
resolved, if his door were broken in (he was a small Southern man
resolved it; but he was by that time clear-headed, and had none.
resonance of the human voice, that it affected the senses like a once
resounded with the echoes of footsteps coming and going, yet not a
respectable woman with a little property--somebody in the landlady way,
respect for it, that in the retributive arrangements made by his own
"Respectin' a future spear o' life, miss," returned Mr. Cruncher, "I
"--respecting the small property of my poor father, whom I never saw--so
respect, of no human creature; I have won myself a tender place in no
respects--as he was then?"
respect, such a mystery to me; I can make no guess at the state of her
respect than you expressed for him to-night."
Responding to his softened manner, Mr. Lorry answered:
responsibility for that misery, until the paper had been read. He had
responsive to a bell she rang, echoed the sentiment, and one added, "For
rested upon an elderly gentleman and a young lady, who were seated in
rest fell to dancing, and the courtyard overflowed with the Carmagnole.
resting. Let me finish my pipe, and I shall sleep like a child. Will you
restless fingers and the croaking voice. This man, whom he had seen upon
restoration of a state of things that had utterly exhausted itself,
restore him to life, love, duty, rest, comfort."
rest will soon be far from here, please God! Now, get assistance and
resumed, in the manner of a sleeper that moment awake, reverting to a
resumed my seat, I found both the brothers intent upon me.
resumed; of the two or three customers fallen forward asleep, who in the
resuming it as his safest place, said:
resumption of some old pursuit connected with the shock?"
Resurrection-Man?"
retaken yesterday. Indictment delivered to him last night. Suspected and
retired into the house. She was not unfrequently the victim of this
retorted Jerry, "whether they drink your health or the Old Un's."
retraced their way to the courtyard; seeming to recover their sense
returned from the dark room. "Adieu, Mr. Barsad," said the former; "our
returned no reply, but it was evident that he heard what was said, and
return of morning. Surely, not so the ringing of the great bell of the
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
return these three or four days past. Mr. Stryver and Sydney Carton were
return, the setting aside of his chair and his books--these, and the
return to Tellson's and take leave of Mr. Lorry. As soon as he arrived
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
revenge.
revengeful and fitful, the innocent were so constantly put to death on
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
reverse--but, it cleared off (as to this world) the trouble of each
reversed the spin, and all spun round another way. Suddenly they stopped
revolutionary committees all over the land; a law of the Suspected,
revolutionary tribunal in the capital, and forty or fifty thousand
Revolution-fever will have been too much for him?"
Revolution that was running so fearfully wild.
Revolution was to scatter them all to the winds.
rider were covered with mud, from the hoofs of the horse to the hat of
ridge of ploughed land, with a plough upon it where it had been left
riding after him and taking him back, riding before him and stopping him
right, Jacques?"
rise beyond, was soon checked by the steepness of the hill. Gradually,
risen and stiff hair on Mr. Cruncher's head.
rising from this abyss, and, in their struggles to be truly free, in
rising in him for the sixty-three who had been that day put to death,
risings in the streets; and, although it is not likely they will ever
rising to be a lion. Stryver was rich; had married a florid widow with
risk! Forbid it, miss! Wot I say, for-_bid_ it!" This was Mr. Cruncher's
road, and are on the hill above it, and are like the shadows of giants.
road--assisted from behind more swiftly than politely by the other two
roads, guided by the beacon they had lighted, towards their next
roadside destinations. The mildewy inside of the coach, with its damp
roads that lay before them.
roadway to avoid dark alleys, fearful of its coming hopping out of them
road wrongfully, and trod it firmly every day, sprang up to stimulate
roar.
roar arose from the throat of Saint Antoine, and a forest of naked arms
robed and ready. Crash!--A head is held up, and the knitting-women who
rocking itself to and fro, and moaning. They spoke in such a tone as
rolled away.
roof, with a little crane over it for the hoisting up of stores from
room.
room, and came back with a large jug of cold water, a basin, and a towel
room and said something. A faint voice answered something. Little more
room at the back here. You must leave your father and me alone for
room distortedly reflect--a shade of horror.
room in every one of them encloses its own secret; that every beating
room, in one of the chateau's four extinguisher-topped towers. A small
rooms.
rooms, and of half-imagined faces peeping from behind every open door
rooms, from the largest object to the least; the arrangement of colours,
rooms, much prostrated before by mankind--always excepting superior
room when they got up-stairs, Mr. Lorry was reminded of Defarge the
rooting out an obnoxious family of Aristocrats, and would doubtless feel
root out a single sin, poured their distracting babble into any ears
rose in her head-dress, before she looked at the figure.
"Rot the admiration of the whole Court! Who made the Old Bailey a judge
round a dingy hearse and dingy mourning coach, in which mourning coach
round at the walls.
Rounding his mouth and both his eyes, as he stepped backward from the
round over their shoulders at the light and freshness pouring in at
rounds of the clock, was to set a great mark of blood upon the blessed
Royal George, that although but one kind of man was seen to go into it,
ruinating! Whereas them medical doctors' wives don't flop--catch 'em at
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
rumoured to be seen at broad day, going home stealthily and unsteadily
running dry. Nor would it have been an expectation of a hopeful kind,
running summer, underneath the carriage of the Marquis, hanging by the
run of confidence upon us! Our customers over there, seem not to be able
run out between their fingers. Others, men and women, dipped in
rush-candles of the village guttering out, the people happily dispersed,
rushed to his heart. The buzz of the great flies was loud again.
rust here!"
rustic mire, snuffed about by pigs, and roosted in by poultry, which
rustled its green leaves, church-organs claimed to be made, and silver
sacrificed me?" when his face clears, as he looks into the third.
sacrifice it. I only want your authority. I am sure it does no good.
saddle o' yourn, don't let me see your hand go nigh 'em. For I'm a devil
Sadly, sadly, the sun rose; it rose upon no sadder sight than the man of
sad to think how much he had thrown away, and how much he every day kept
safe, and strong, and sound, and still, just as he had last seen them.
safe, for no one beyond ourselves can decipher it; but shall we always
sagacious Mr. Lorry saw that there was a new sustaining pride in it.
said (else had his own head quivered on his shoulders), that the good
said French Lewis, and wickedly, falsely, traitorously, and otherwise
said he, at his hoarsest.
said he was not arrived."
said his late client, taking his hand.
said, in a low voice, "I entreat you, good gentlemen, do not come near
said it; perhaps not quite disinterestedly, but with the interested
said it with a hard smile, and went on writing.
said Miss Pross.
said not a single word in reference to the discovery that had been told
said of Ma'amselle Manette?"
said, rising:
said serene, illustrious, excellent, and so forth, had in preparation
said that he had reason to fear us. Say all! _Had_ he reason?"
said the spy, firmly.
said to orange-trees in boxes in a Bank courtyard, and even to a Cupid
said, with a cool, bold smile:
said: "You may not understand the gentleman."
Saint Antoine had been, that morning, a vast dusky mass of scarecrows
Saint Antoine slept, the Defarges slept: even The Vengeance slept with
Sainte Guillotine?"
sake, Destiny will keep her husband out of France."
sake, my dear Manette!"
sake. She is everything to me; more to me than suffering, more to me
sakes. Next to her preservation of his own last grateful love and
sake. Thou wilt be faithful, little Charles?' The child answered her
salutation, as if it were at a distance:
same consideration that suggested him, repudiated him; he lived in the
same hour of the early afternoon, on the Barrier with the crowd about
same low voice.
same; that, indeed, it was rather the better for the prosecution, as
sanded it, and handed it to Defarge, with the words "In secret."
sanguine mirage of so many good minds, arose before him, and he even
Sardanapalus's luxury, and a mole's blindness--but it had dropped
sat at a table, among the gentlemen in wigs: not far from a wigged
sat by her grandfather with her hands clasped through his arm: and he,
sat down at the table, and listened again until the clock struck Two.
sat down by the side of the bed. There was a timid and suppressed woman
sat down there in friendly relations, "let me ask you--does the Doctor,
sat here of an evening, until I have fancied--but even the shade of
satisfaction. Do you go with me to the Bank?"
sat leaning back, with his torn gown half off him, his untidy wig put
sat near you. I had no difficulty in deducing from your unreserved
sat on a low bench, stooping forward and very busy, making shoes.
sat there looking down at the plane-tree; but, on Mr. Lorry's return, he
sat under his hand, utterly insensible; with her eyes open and fixed
Saturday who had been taken on Tuesday; now, burning people in the
saved, had astounded him scarcely less than the mad ferocity against
save papa! O, look at her, dear Carton! Can you, of all the people who
save the falling of a fountain into its stone basin; for, it was one of
saw a man and a woman standing staring at each other; the man with all
saw himself in the illusion with some influence to guide this raging
saw his way to the verdict. Argued with the jury on substantial worldly
saw inscribed as his "Little Sainte Guillotine"--for the great sharp
saw making his way to Mr. Lorry, with the note in his hand. Mr. Lorry
saw nothing.
say a word to _you_ about _your_ prospects. You are in a bad way, you
"Say gallantry, while you are about it," suggested Carton.
say; if you really have the power you think you have--as I believe you
saying, "Follow me, Evremonde!" and he followed into a large dark room,
"Saying your prayers! You're a nice woman! What do you mean by flopping
say now!"
"Say of you, Miss Manette, and although I know better--although in the
says, all this was actually done to a prisoner who made an attempt on
Say, shall I hire a carriage and post-horses?"
"Say then, my friend; what did Jacques of the police tell thee?"
"Say, then, my Gaspard, what do you do there?"
"Say then, my husband. What is it?"
'Say, what is he like?' I make response, 'Tall as a spectre.'"
say when I rendered it; I am speaking of the past."
scaffold.
Scanty and insufficient suppers those, and innocent of meat, as of
scarcely a hope that anything in his character or fortunes is reparable
scarcely have assumed, "Quite sure, my darling! More than that," he
scarcely less dear namesake, pretending that he would return by-and-bye
scarcely lifted their eyes to look at it a moment ago when it could
Scarcely noticing as yet, in what a curiously reserved and mechanical
scarce occasions when two or three ragged peasants emerged from the
scarecrows who, in their quest for herbs to eat and fragments of dead
scarf for a dress of ceremony, I saw the armorial bearings of a Noble,
scene of carnage to the prison of La Force. That, in the prison he had
School of Medicine, when a carriage came along behind me, driven very
scorched and shrivelled; trees at a distance, fired by the four fierce
score. People not immediately connected with Monseigneur or the State,
scores of our customers. These are mere business relations, miss;
scoundrels upon earth since accursed Judas--which he certainly did look
scraps of the day's journey that came unbidden into his mind; the slow
screeching at him all the time, and the men sternly calling out to have
screwing and complaining sound down below, and their bent figures were
sea and land, and would leave no doubt that he had habitually conveyed
search of other carrion.
sea-sand, Madame Defarge took her way along the streets.
seasons of pestilence, some of us will have a secret attraction to the
seat at table.
seated under the tree, and shone upon their faces through its leaves.
sea voyage, and a fair land journey, you will be soon at his dear side."
second follower of the gentle craft to have, all of a sudden, split
second-hand cares, like second-hand clothes, come easily off and on.
secondly, because, on unfavourable Sundays, he was accustomed to be with
seconds he faintly struggled with the man who had come to lay down his
secret from you."
secret weapons in his breast or where not; but, in vain, for he slept
Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm
Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
sect of Convulsionists, and were even then considering within themselves
securely through the leathern strap, and speculate upon the two
see."
see all this here a goin' on dreadful round him, in the way of Subjects
"See!" cried madame, pointing with her knife. "See the old villain bound
"See Defarge!" She stood immovable close to the grim old officer, and
"'See, gentlemen,' said I, still keeping my hands upon her breast, 'how
see her when the chances served, and on that possibility she would have
see if it were in his mind. It seemed to be; he returned the look, and
seeing him dine--it's all one!"
Seeing in this arrangement the hope of rendering real service in that
"Seeking them from me, my nephew," said the Marquis, touching him on the
seemed a faint expression of curiosity or perplexity--as though he were
seemed as though it had been stamped upon her face expressly to give
seemed as though the very mention of that weary pacing to and fro had
seems probable, too."
seen him but now, on his way to the Hotel de Ville, a prisoner. I have
seen how safe and strong he was.
see no more than that they are six soldiers with a tall man bound, and
seen or heard. That is your consolation. Keep it."
seen through your marriage, than it could have been--nay, than it ever
"See!" returned the mender of roads, with extended finger. "You go down
"See!" said the Doctor of Beauvais, raising his hand towards the moon.
see the carriage of the King and Queen.
see the very stars out!
"See to it, Gabelle. Go on!"
"See what a place you fill at seventy-eight. How many people will miss
"See you," said madame, "I care nothing for this Doctor, I. He may wear
"See you then, Jacques," said Madame Defarge, wrathfully; "and see you,
self-abnegating way, as one who shook for Tellson and Co.
self-immolations on the people's altar. Therefore when the President
selfish thing.
self-reproachful now than I can tell you. Even as it is--"
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
sensation while his words were in her ears; and she remembered it long
sense where there is no sense, and a laudable ambition where there is
sensitive and poetical spirit--"
sensitive to cold, was wrapped in fur, and had a quantity of bright
sent after him, and the real message returned, would all be there. Out
sent a letter to her (though never by the Doctor's hand), but she was
sent her there.
sentiment. I have passed from one to another, in the course of my
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
separately. I mark this cross of blood upon him, as a sign that I do
servants under the mysterious penalty of "letting them know" something
service, idly burning away."
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
set it going.
settlement; and there was many a good south wall, not far off, on which
set up a shout of applause. All the voices were in the prisoner's
set upon them to strip them of their feathers for your own advantage,
set when we were out of the harbour. He did it for me. He expressed
seven days, eight days, nine days.
Seven prisoners released, seven gory heads on pikes, the keys of the
seventy-five, did business occasion you to travel between London and
several callings purported to be pursued by day, but whereof little was
sexes, the mender of roads bathed himself, so much to his temporary
shadow.
shadow at a distance, crept up to his bed, and put her lips to his;
shadow attendant on Madame Defarge and her party seemed then to fall,
shadow on me and on all my hopes."
shadows of the night were gone.
shakes his hair a little more loosely about his face. He cannot easily
shake the wet out of his hat-brim, which might be capable of
shaking a forefinger at him. "You are a man of business and bound to
shaking of hands, and even joining of hands and dancing, a dozen
shall always be, towards you, what I am now, though outwardly I shall be
shall be laid under some other heap of poor grass. Monseigneur, they
shall go to the wall (comparatively speaking) before him. And when, at
"Shall I go on, sir?"
"Shall I show her to you? Will you come and see her?"
"Shall I take her to a coach? I shall never feel her weight."
shall make sure that you've been praying again me, and I shall work you
shall meet again, where the weary are at rest!"
shall not draw it. I am stronger than you, I bless Heaven for it. I hold
shall strike you dead?"
shall thank and bless you for it--that my last avowal of myself was made
"Shall we go home, my father?"
"Shall you bring any fish home, father?"
shapes to the mare as arose out of _her_ private topics of uneasiness.
share in it, and my being resorted to. She did not know that the girl
share in the worst of the day, played gently with their meagre children;
sharpened there," said Mr. Lorry. "The place is national property now,
sharpened, were all red with it. Some of the hacked swords were tied to
sharpening-stone, were men stripped to the waist, with the stain all
sharp female called La Guillotine.
"Shave? Always. Every day. What a barber! You have seen him at work?"
shaved close: who kissed La Guillotine, looked through the little window
shawl twined about her head, though not to the concealment of her large
She and no other.
She came down from her bed, to look at him in his sleep that night. He
She could scarcely answer, "I trust in you."
She curtseyed to him (young ladies made curtseys in those days), with a
shedding his cloak, hat, long hatband, white pocket-handkerchief, and
She did, indeed, start. And she caught his wrist with both her hands.
She did not greatly alter in appearance. The plain dark dresses, akin to
She drew closer to him, and kissed his cheek and his hand.
sheep to the quiet corner in Soho, and had offered as pupils to
Sheep was a cant word of the time for a spy, under the gaolers. The spy,
she exaggerated it.
she had been engaged, she would not have pitied herself; nor, if she had
she had hitherto remained standing. He watched her as she mused, and the
"She had laid her head upon my shoulder, that night when I was summoned
She had moved from the wall of the garret, very near to the bench on
She had never seen him softened, and was much distressed. He knew her to
she had no suspicions.
"She had reasons for believing that there was a young sister living, and
she had repeated it.
she had to make. Mr. Cruncher, with the basket, walked at her side. They
"She has a fine head for it," croaked Jacques Three. "I have seen blue
"'She has a husband, a father, and a brother?'
"'She has some recent association with the number twelve?'
"'She heard me, and ran in. I told her not to come near us till he was
She held him closer round the neck, and rocked him on her breast like a
"She is."
"She is an Angel!" said The Vengeance, and embraced her.
"'She is dead,' said I.
"She is greatly distressed; but her father is comforting her, and she
"'She is my sister, Doctor. They have had their shameful rights, these
"She kissed the boy, and said, caressing him, 'It is for thine own dear
She kisses his lips; he kisses hers; they solemnly bless each other.
"She knew nothing of you. She cared nothing for you."
she knew, this is not a voice she ever heard. No, no. She was--and He
she laid her appealing hand on Madame Defarge's dress:
She laid her head upon her father's breast, as she had laid his poor
"She lingered for a week. Towards the last, I could understand some few
She looked an old woman, but was young. Her manner was one of passionate
She looked so beautiful in the purity of her faith in this lost man,
sheltered from the weather that very day, rude carts, bespattered with
shelter my father from the wind and weather, better than I had done. I
she might ever be as true to him as her love aspired to be, and as his
"She might think a thousand things," Carton said, "and any of them would
She moved her hand towards his lips, but he took it in his, and repeated
"She never missed before," says a knitting-woman of the sisterhood.
she not here! See her knitting in my hand, and her empty chair ready for
she now stood looking at him, with hands which at first had been only
she of all the world who must uphold him in his misery and not augment
"_She_ pretty?"
She repeated in the same tone, sunk to a whisper, "I have been free, I
She resumed her knitting and went out. The Vengeance followed. Defarge
She rolled up her knitting when she had said those words, and presently
She said it aloud, but added to herself, as she resumed her knitting:
She sighed "No."
she stopped for the Judge to write it down, watched its effect upon
she thought, what if the key were already taken in a net, what if
She tied a knot with flashing eyes, as if it throttled a foe.
She timidly laid her hand on his dear breast, and put up a prayer that
"She was a good, compassionate lady, and not happy in her marriage. How
"She was mightily pleased to have your message, when I gave it her. Not
She was pale and trembling. He came to her relief with a fixed despair
"She will now be at home, awaiting the moment of his death. She will
shillings in twenty guineas, it would be so encouraging. I should be so
shining Bull's Eye of their Court, a glittering multitude of laughing
shivering--chilled, as yet, by the new sweet air. Then began the rarely
shock--?"
shock under which the sufferer was borne down, one cannot say for how
shoemaker of the garret in Paris. Yet, no one could have looked at him
shoemaking.
shoemaking did die out of him, and he refolded his little packet and
shoe of the old size and shape. He took up another that was lying by
shoes, and leather, were buried in the garden. So wicked do destruction
shoes, and trudged. But, the theatres were all well filled, and the
shoes are large and clumsy, and he is lame. Because he is lame, and
shoes, he made shoes." The prisoner counted the measurement again, and
shook his head, and stopped.
Shooter's Hill. He walked up hill in the mire by the side of the mail,
shop among the customers, for any new customer who had dropped in while
shops. To avoid attracting notice, and to give as little occasion as
shore.
short and the long of it is, that I am a subject of His Most Gracious
shortly afterwards, and the wine-shop recovered its habitual aspect.
Shortly, this worn-out murderer descried in the imperfect light one of
short nightly pause in fury; Sydney Carton crossed the Seine again for
short with:
should avail myself of it four times in a year. It would satisfy me, I
should be crushed under the wheels."
should but have had so much the more to answer for. If it had been
should come to the knowledge of the step, as a step taken, and not in
shoulder. After looking doubtfully at it, two or three times, as if to
shoulder as he was going away, caused him to turn.
shouldered himself into Fleet-street, amidst the general approbation of
shoulder, "I _have_ saved him. What weakness is this, my dear! Let me go
shoulder, lifted her a little, and hurried her into the room. He sat her
shoulders to keep the wet off. Apart from the personal discomfort of
should go back to her, and come to the banking-house again at midnight.
should have been the cause, and then the dark part of my life would have
should have great hope. He, yielding under the pressure of a complicated
should have made them prosperous, had not seen it inevitably coming,
should have watched the lamplighter, in their idleness and hunger, so
should I know?"
should know it to be a baseness. If I had any such possibility, even at
should know there is such a man as I here." And he turned his face
should love you, you shall tell me on your marriage morning. Do you
should not see us together to-night. Go! God bless you!"
should you particularly like a man who resembles you? There is nothing
Show Concord! Gentleman's valise and hot water to Concord. Pull off
showed the workman with an unfinished shoe upon his lap, pausing in his
showering generosity, forbearance, and goodwill, on his erring head.
showing the prisoner to be artful in his precautions. That, the proof
show in the streets. Barsad proposed to the rest, "Let her embrace
"Show it me!"
"Show me!" said the traveller then, moving to the brow of the hill.
"Show me the North Tower!" said Defarge. "Quick!"
shown into a little room, where Charles Darnay was soon recruiting
show the soldiers that he recognises me; we do it, and we know it, with
show you. But you will not be able to see him, my poor child, and even
shredding spare onions and the like for supper, while many were at the
shrewd as you usually do think me. I intend to marry."
shrewd glance of Mr. Lorry it disclosed some shadowy indication that the
shrivelled and poor as the miserable people. Everything was bowed down,
shun. It was an inconsistent and ubiquitous fiend too, for, while it
shut out the sight of him, but which were now extending towards him,
sickness, misery, oppression and neglect of all kinds?"
side of him.
side of the mail. All three were wrapped to the cheekbones and over the
sight, but it never moved. The phantom that my mind pursued, was another
sight is likely to do good. Enough; you are English; that is another
sight of whom he laid aside his book and held out his hand.
sight too, embracing her and thanking her, and protesting against
significance. The elder gentleman took the cry so ill, that he watched
sign of the house. He was never absent during business hours, unless
silence and desertion reigned there. Only one soul was to be seen, and
"Silence!" growled a red-cap, striking at the coverlet with the butt-end
Silence in the court! Charles Darnay had yesterday pleaded Not Guilty to
silently attentive.
simplicity, four years ago. He had asked the prisoner, aboard the Calais
"Simply, 'that he has received the letter, and will come.'"
since a small part of his income was derived from the pilotage of timid
"Since I must say so, I know it."
"Since it is my misfortune, Mr. Carton, to have made you more unhappy
"Since the state of your mind that you describe, is, at all events,
since--to be known by its fruits of indifference to every natural
single day.
single drawbridge, and the massive stone walls, and the eight great
singular need of occupation. That may be, in part, natural to it; in
sinister."
sink lower, and be worse."
sin of having drawn his high wages, by being more than ready and
sir?"
"Sir, I can do neither."
"Sir, I thank you indeed. I thank you very gratefully. It was told me
"Sir," said the nephew, "we have done wrong, and are reaping the fruits
sir. We men of business, who serve a House, are not our own masters. We
sisterhood knitted beside her. The short, rather plump wife of a starved
sister; "if any trouble comes of this, it's your doing."
sister of the shield and trident, rolled with exceeding smoothness down
sits there."
sitting beside her father.
sitting beside the Queen. It is Defarge whom you see here, who, at the
situation engendered came through the brown upon his cheek, showing the
situation was referable to her father, through the painful anxiety
sixpence.
Six tumbrils roll along the streets. Change these back again to what
skinny finger would not have pointed to it for a minute, before they all
sky. "It must be forty feet high," said they, grimly; and never moved.
sky. Then, the night, with the moon and the stars, turned pale and died,
sleep. As these ruffians turned and turned, their matted locks now flung
slender fires were made in the streets, at which neighbours cooked in
slept heavily, and his tray of shoemaking tools, and his old unfinished
slid away into the bank and the grave.
slight devices with which she cheated herself into the show of a belief
Slightly observant of the smoky lights; of the people, pipe in mouth,
slightly rustled in her seat.
slinking though they were, eyes of fire were not wanting among them; nor
slipped away to his bench.
sloth and sensuality, and fighting out the abandoned fight. A dream, all
sloughs there. The agony of our impatience is then so great, that in our
slowly moved to me.
slow to express itself to him, he answered, in his former strong foreign
slumbering forms, until his mind lost its hold of them, and they again
slunk about there from the time of the opening of the door, who could
smile. As he went out at the prisoners' door, she turned, laid her head
smile, "Dear papa and mamma, I am very sorry to leave you both, and to
smiling to The Vengeance. "Save him now, my Doctor, save him!"
smoking his afternoon pipe in the contemplation of the droll national
smotherings in the form of embracings all round, going on in the
snap of his teeth. Observant of his unwillingness to mar the effect by
so."
So at last began the Evening Paper at La Force.
"So at least you say he may have been one of them?"
"So attentively, and with so much confidence in what you say, that for
sobbing and crying, and pointing to the fountain, where some women were
"So! But on other moonlight nights, when the sadness and the silence
so closely that they came to a stop. On the crowd's opening the coach
so cold, so dark, my senses are so benumbed, and the gloom upon me is so
So cowed was their condition, and so long and hard their experience of
so deep in his task, that his eyes did not even follow the hand he
so did varieties of sunken cheek, cadaverous colour, emaciated hands
so exactly was the expression repeated on the fair young face of her who
So far as it was possible to comprehend him without overstepping those
"So far, miss (as you have remarked), this is the story of your
so far off, either, but that the watching towers of Notre Dame, almost
"So far, we have spoken before these two, because it was as well that
so forth; that was to say, by coming and going, between the dominions of
so fortunate as to find you there, and being informed that you were
softening to behold in action; also, for extensive transactions in
softer feeling than a fierce desire to change places with the man who
softly called, "Enter there! Come in!" and the Spy presented himself.
softly laid the patient on a sofa, and tended her with great skill and
softly stealing down; "'I never should have used the longer opportunity.
so happily recovered from," said Mr. Lorry, clearing his throat, "we
so he at length began, "for some year and a half, that I hope the topic
Soho."
Soho, than one memorable evening when the Doctor and his daughter sat
"So-ho!" the guard sang out, as loud as he could roar. "Yo there! Stand!
So, leaving only one light burning on the large hearth, he let his thin
solemn--"
solemn consideration, when I enter a great city by night, that every
solemnly declare that I am at this time in the possession of my right
solemn prayer at night for one dear prisoner especially, among the many
solemn vow already, to go through with this, that you waste the precious
solicitude at her father, Doctor Manette keeping his eyes fixed on the
so like Smith's work, so much more like the top of a strongly spiked
solitary cell. It struck cold and damp, but was not dark.
solitary pipes, and did not start upon his excursion until nearly one
solitary state apart, moved in a rising wind, as though they threatened
solitude from his grim pursuer. His cunning was fresh with the day,
So long as a servant was present, no other words passed between them.
sombre morning, unconscious where he was or what had happened, until it
somebody; but this gentleman is no spy, and why should he so demean
Somebody's step coming to the door. Let me kiss my dear girl with an
somebody to scrawl it up for him, however, who had squeezed Death in
some had been dragged out by the crowd and murdered.
some insolent delicacy respecting his daughter--_his_ daughter? We have
some intelligence--or discovery--"
Some minutes of silent work had passed: and the haggard eyes had looked
some misty way asking himself, "Why not?" The sagacity of the man of
some nourishment into the flinty viands, and struck some sparks of
some of the reasons for my going: not for my staying away. It is safe
some other. Let me show you the nearest tavern to dine well at."
"Some papers had been handed about among them, but I don't know what
something.
something, long dreaded and long vaguely foreseen and contended against,
something new in thy family; remember it! Sydney Carton. Advocate.
"Something that crossed me?"
sometimes?"
sometimes a little fitful and sudden, as he had at first been in the
sometimes gain access at three in the afternoon. When he can get to
sometimes gratified their fickleness, or their better impulses towards
Sometimes, it was given in a tender rain of tears, and then it was,
sometimes made itself audible, even in that deaf city and dumb age,
sometimes sat alone here of an evening, listening, until I have made
sometimes unaccountably realised large fortunes, and it was remarkable
some very poor instrument, and hurriedly, with an unsteady hand.
somewhere; but, I had never seen it break out, until I saw it in the
somewhere here?'
"So, Mr. Lorry! Men of business may speak to Mr. Darnay now?"
"So much the better. His name?"
so much the more valuable here for being English that an Englishman
song and feather, took no warning.
song, "we never hear about them. We received the news of their safe
Soon afterwards, the bell at the great gate sounded, and he thought,
Soon afterwards the day began to dawn, and he softly detached himself
soon at the top. There, as it had an abrupt turn in it, they came all at
soon be home."
sooner?
sooner beheld him in his terrors than he took to his noble heels.
sooner did he face her, than Miss Pross uttered a scream, and clapped
Soon, from a score of the great windows, flames burst forth, and the
so on in regular changes, without a moment's intermission. The task of
Soon, Madame Defarge's hands ceased to strike, and felt at her encircled
soon over. It was the incident of every day, and the society of La Force
soothed him to sit down before the fire, with a promise that he should
soothing influence, that for minutes at a time it tranquillised the
So powerful is use, and so desirable to be good use in the beginning. It
so real with me, and my faults were not confirmed in me."
so received it, and remained silent.
So resistless was the force of the ocean bearing him on, that even to
sores. Stooping down beside him, the road-mender tried to get a peep at
sorrow more, if you were my father. You are free from that misfortune,
sorrows deserved. Then, she withdrew her hand, and kissed his lips once
so. She was a good girl. She was betrothed to a good young man, too: a
so, Solomon turned to the followers of the Good Republican Brutus
"So soon?"
so strange it was to him to act in anything without her quiet aid), and
So strangely clouded were these refinements by the prison manners and
So strange was the way in which he faded into silence, and so strange
So, the time came for him to bid Lucie good night, and they separated.
soul to be stronger than the sun. He was otherwise quite self-possessed,
sound; and so strong was the voice within her, representing that it was
sound English, and render them into sound English. Such masters were not
soundness for yourself; if, on the other hand, you should be satisfied
sound of craving and eagerness that had nothing articulate in it but
sound of the shrieks. They continued to be uttered in their regular
Sounds that he was not afraid of, for he divined their meaning, then
So used are the regular inhabitants of the houses to the spectacle, that
So, with great perseverance and untiring industry, he prospered.
space by the village fountain, and the horse in a foam stood at Monsieur
sparkled under it.
speaker to take notice that he was a free traveller and French citizen,
"Speak for yourself, Mr. Lorry," said Stryver; "I have a night's work to
speaking in a vexed, abrupt voice (though in a low tone), and in
speaking to him when no one overheard.
Speak, Jacques Five!"
speak to his conversation with your daughter?"
special companionship in it, an observable inclination on the part
specially, to their longing arms; and shouldering itself towards the
spectacle.
spectacle, and making a barrier behind which they slunk, and through
spectacle is well worth looking at), and at first, as they approach, I
spectacles upon him. "It is the law."
spectators put upon the interest, according to their several arts and
spectre:
speculate on all he has lost. Dear, dear, dear! To think that there
speculate with, and had abandoned her in her poverty for evermore, with
speech. "Who wants me? Is it Jerry?"
speed; though, mind! I expect nothing! When are you likely to have seen
Spies had become, even in one short week, extremely chary of trusting
Spi--i--ies!"
spirits of the scene: noisily commenting, applauding, disapproving,
Spiritual revelations were conceded to England at that favoured period,
splits branched out in the solid walls, like crystallisation; stupefied
spoken. The confidence is not of my seeking, recollect. Now, you think I
spoke very low, and I did not hear what they said, and saw only that
spot--thereby setting up a highly intelligible finger-post to the
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
spring, in the hot sunshine of summer, in the rains of autumn, and again
sprites, and was seen no more.
sprung to their feet.
spurring and splashing through the darkness, and bridle was drawn in the
Spy, and looks attentively at him, and goes his way.
spy if he had failed to see it, or to record it in his mind.
spy of Pitt, the treacherous foe of the Republic crouching in its bosom,
square cuffs and large flaps to the pockets, passed along on his way to
squeezed them against the wall. The House itself, magnificently reading
squeezing himself in among the lean kine brought there to drink, and
stables, twenty-four male domestics sat in his halls, six body-women
stained many hands, too, and many faces, and many naked feet, and many
stained red.
stained with the stain of the old rag she wound about her head again.
staircase into a garret--formerly the garret where a white-haired man
staircase--left its own heap of refuse on its own landing, besides
staircase meeting in a stone terrace before the principal door. A stony
stairs, and shook the curtains of the bed where the last Marquis
stair, scrambled into bed with him, and bumped down, dead and heavy, on
stake I have resolved to play for, in case of the worst, is a friend
standard gaoler-joke was, "Come out and listen to the Evening Paper, you
Standing, as it were, apart with her on the edge of his grave, not all
standing between them and the narrator, whom he had stationed in the
standing by him, when not engaged in making forays through the Bar, to
standing near our little fountain, and says, 'To me! Bring that rascal!'
standing; some seated. Some were lamenting, and in restless motion;
star. And as mere human knowledge can split a ray of light and analyse
stared blindly at the night. Dead darkness lay on all the landscape,
stars came out, seemed to have shot up into the sky instead of having
stars for having lighted him in his declining years to a Home. But, no
started away among the moss and leaves, like the more fortunate hares
started from his eyes.
started with it on the wet, wet roads at three o'clock in the morning.
*** START: FULL LICENSE ***
*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A TALE OF TWO CITIES ***
starved fingers and toes, or in those of her child, returned to it; men
statement of the quantity of wine and punch which one man would swallow
state of lion's jackal, than any real jackal may be supposed to think of
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
States.
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
state secrets, than the needs of all France. A happy circumstance
State Trials of this country were full. But, there my Lord interposed
State was touched, except the remedy of setting to work in earnest to
station at Tellson's. Whether his meditations on mortality had touched
stationed in which the smiths worked, making guns for the Army of the
stature) was shortness.
status with the IRS.
steadfastly at one another. The Vengeance stooped, and the jar of a drum
steady enough to write?"
"Steady it again, and write what I shall dictate. Quick, friend, quick!"
steady than he was, when he stopped under it to remark to them that he
steel, pulled at it until it was in a bright glow: then, suddenly held
stepped up to where Mr. Lorry and Mr. Darnay stood upon the pavement.
step was strong and prosperous among them; her father's firm and equal.
stick to burn, strayed within sight of the great stone courtyard and
Still, alive. Your father has been taken to the house of an old servant
still holds it as he promised. He gently places her with her back to the
Still, Madame Defarge, pursuing her way along the streets, came nearer
stillness, it passed out on the air, like the soul of the furious woman
still rolled in like muffled drums, but with the wail of voices that he
"Still," said Darnay, "you know how gloomy and threatening the sky is."
Still, the Doctor, with shaded forehead, beat his foot nervously on the
Still, the Hundreds of people did not present themselves. Mr. Darnay
stipulations. There is a great crowd bearing down upon us, Miss Manette,
stockings, and all his poor tatters of clothes, had, in a long seclusion
stock of knowledge, which was already very large. But, unfortunately,
stock, went through the entries in the book, made other entries of
stone face over the great window of the bed-chamber where the murder
stone faces awakened, stared out of fire.
stone floor, and the pure water in the village well--thousands of acres
stone flowers, and stone faces of men, and stone heads of lions, in
stone has been worked out and replaced, I find a written paper. This is
stones of the street, pointing every way, and designed, one might have
stones that clatter us and shake us; sometimes, we stick in ruts and
stood, how he would be touched, whether the touching hands would be dyed
stood in a little space apart, and Monseigneur might have been warmer
stood looking about him, the very chairs and tables seemed to ask him,
stood looking back at her.
stood surprisingly long, went to the winds, and Saint Antoine had got
stood up, not to miss a hair of him; people on the floor of the court,
stood with an air of gossiping gallantry, leaning his elbow on Madame
stood with the lamp in his hand, as if he were a statue made to hold it,
stooped, and, casting up his eyes at the guard, handed the passenger
stooping low and looking up. There was a small chimney, heavily barred
stooping over the motionless bundle, and moving gently about it. They
stooping to work again, when his eyes caught the skirt of her dress. He
"Stop!"
stop it for ever and ever, in you or in a hundred like you rather than
"Stop!--Look here, Jacques!"
stopped, and they kept close company with it. If any one of the three
stopped at a shop-window where there was a mirror, and slightly altered
stopped at a solitary house, We all three alighted, and walked, by
stopped; carriages were often known to drive on, and leave their wounded
stopped to breathe again, and the guard got down to skid the wheel for
"Stop!" said the Doctor of Beauvais.
stores and secrets as were known to the passenger (and it was not a
storm in time, and anticipating plunder or confiscation, had made
storms--emblem to humanity, of the rest and silence into which the storm
"Story!"
straight, and I will go to others whom it is better not to name. I will
straight, and make that change."
straightforward force of truth and earnestness, the Jury and the
straight lips, and the markings in the nose, curved with a sarcasm that
"Straight!" said Stryver, with a plump of his fist on the desk.
strained, as if by a weight. By slow degrees the weight broke away the
strait of the day. He turned the dialogue to that point, and thanked him
"Stranger things than that will happen when it does come," answered
straying all around, he took his coat off, and let it drop on the floor.
stream absorbed it, and carried it on to the sea.--"Like me."
street, and rumbled into the inn-yard.
street, "before the tumbrils arrive!"
street. Could you favour me, in confidence, with some minutes of your
street, full of offence and stench, with other narrow winding streets
streets.
streets, among the heavy shadows, with the moon and the clouds sailing
streets, and ever dimmer in the worse--and by lighted shops, gay crowds,
streets, Madame Defarge spoke to her husband:
streets. Now, Ladybird, never you stir from that fire till I come back!
streets. The very children scarcely noticed him. A few passers turned
street-stones, and when the stain of it would be red upon many there.
streets, was another relief. She looked at her watch, and it was twenty
streets, with a heavier heart.
strength to her case, and make herself doubly sure. You follow me?"
strength. "You must not be weak, my darling," he remonstrated; "don't
stress upon the second word.)
stretched out for his glass--which often groped about, for a minute or
stretching out her arms towards her husband, with nothing in her face
striking at her with the knife, though they had.
strikingly greedy air, as if he hungered for something--that was neither
striking of the church clock so terrified Young Jerry, that he made off,
string, and he instantly changes for the worse. Better leave it alone.
striven all day and lain awake and wept all night, because the love of
striving to dry her eyes and compose herself, "I have no doubt it
stroke of business. The rattle of the harness was the chink of money,
strong action. "Nothing that we do, is done in vain. I believe, with all
strong and eager interest to know what they are."
strong and fearless character, of shrewd sense and readiness, of great
stronger in him than any stimulating sense of desert or disgrace, made
strongest assurances that I should save him; and I did." He returned the
strongest assurances. To both, he wrote that he would despatch letters
strong internal agitation when he was questioned, and that pondering or
strong men besides the Cook.
struck a blow upon them with his hammer, and the crowd groaned; but, no
struck. He knew of no rock; he saw hardly any danger. The intention
struck out of the stone, all their wicked atmosphere seemed gore and
struck with a reproachful sound, "that if my fortune were so cast as
Struck with consternation, the old gentleman exclaimed, "What do you
struggled in the air like shrivelled branches of trees in a winter wind:
struggling in the surf at the South Sea, until he was landed in the
Stryver.
Stryver, already fast shouldering his way to a large and lucrative
Stryver, "and I'll do it. If this fellow is a gentleman, I _don't_
Stryver fitted the prisoner's case on the jury, like a compact suit
Stryver had fitted on the jury, inside out; showing how Barsad and
Stryver; "I'll do that for you."
Stryver--" Mr. Lorry paused, and shook his head at him in the oddest
Stryver shouldering him towards the door, with an appearance of
Stryver's mind to enter the bank, and reveal to Mr. Lorry the brightness
Stryver with indignation, which he afterwards turned to account in the
studied the figure from the life--his own life, maybe--for it was
studious and attentive.
subdued voice,
subject of human interest, were in the most exemplary state of
subject of last night.
subject pleasant, I should think."
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
sublime and prophetic.
submission, of mortal fear, advanced with his hand to his red cap.
subordinates.
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
successfully.
succession; the Minister, the State-Projector, the Farmer-General, the
succession, with the cry, 'My husband, my father, and my brother!' the
succour and release me. My fault is, that I have been true to you. Oh
such a case, no echoes tell; but it is so, and it was so here. Carton
such a force of suction, that within a quarter of an hour there was not
Such a heart Madame Defarge carried under her rough robe. Carelessly
Such a man came upon him, like a ghost, at noon in the July weather,
"Such are not my orders. You will be visited, and can ask then. At
Such a scanty portion of light was admitted through these means, that it
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
Such a staircase, with its accessories, in the older and more crowded
such dread experiences would revive the old danger.
such foreigners! I would almost sooner have seen the dear boy lying in
such heads of information concerning Doctor Manette's imprisonment,
such household occupations as their bare poverty yielded, from their
such information to a hostile power. That, these lists could not be
"Such is the fact, certainly," said Defarge. He had had it conveyed
"Such is the fact," repeated Defarge.
such purchases as were needful. Although Miss Pross, through her long
such vapouring all about his ears, like a troublesome confusion of blood
such violent sounding of that string again. I trust, and I almost
sudden and unfair, that I am absolutely lost. Will you render me a
suddenly became afflicted with a twitching in the head and body, and
suffered, and had come back to her, dead and at peace, and yet there
suffered much; you have seen him to-day; you have observed his face when
suffering! Hear me, my dead baby and my withered father: I swear on my
sufficiently remarkable to elicit a word of remonstrance from Mr. Lorry;
suggesting improvements in laws and customs that had long been highly
suggestion to have 'em out, and to pull 'em out, mobbed the two vehicles
suit. Once more, the Dover mail struggled on, with the jack-boots of its
suit _your_ line of business! Recalled--! Bust me if I don't think he'd
Sullenly enough, the jackal loosened his dress, went into an adjoining
summer day when, lately arrived in London from his college occupation,
summit of the hill?"
summoned, and the place to which I had gone: in effect, stating all the
summoned had died in gaol and been forgotten, and two had already been
sumptuous and choice supper. His chair was opposite to the window, and
sun.
Sundays, he often walked out, before dinner, with the Doctor and Lucie;
superintendence.--O my poor darlings!"
supped as at twenty.
supplied the rest.
suppose the man is."
supposition."
suppressed it was, that it was like a voice underground. So expressive
sure filing down of misery-worn face and figure, that was to make the
sure, from hour to hour, but that the Guillotine would strike off her
"Surely."
surely. First, the lonely boar-spears and knives of the chase had been
"Surely it will release him!" said Madame Defarge. "Let it do so."
surely keep anything going, for ever and ever. The exquisite gentlemen
"Surely, surely."
sure that you might be much, much worthier of yourself."
surface furnished very indifferent space for this legend. He had got
surprised by their appearance until a long time afterwards, when he sat
surprised; I knew you were here; I know of most people who are here. If
surprise, seems to trouble you too much, aside. I declare to you, on the
surprise, yesterday evening; we agreed that I would not present myself
surprise you, and that perhaps will make you think me not quite as
surrounded by all, and in the midst of a line of twenty men long, all
surrounding the coach, deriding him, making grimaces at him, and
surrounding them; in the towers of the churches, where no prayers
susceptibility in every muscle of his wicked face: "I believe there
suspected, and gentility hid its head in red nightcaps, and put on heavy
suspected (perhaps was, by the dark eyes that looked contemptuously at
"suspended," when the last tidings came over.
suspicion."
suspicion of the fact; Mr. Lorry could have none.
suspicion or alarm. There was none. Keys turned, doors clashed,
sustained him in that place that day, against such denunciation.
sustained me."
sustaining, so encouraging, so full of admiring love and pitying
swallow a town. Eh well! Tell me how long it takes to prepare the
swallow, he got it down. "And now," said Mr. Stryver, shaking his
swearers had rested on the prisoner as a victim, because some family
swear it's there."
sweet music in your ears, weep for it, weep for it! If you touch, in
sweet scents of a summer night. The postilions, with a thousand gossamer
swept into the street as if the baffled blue-flies were dispersing in
swift messenger rousing those within; uneasy rushes of wind went through
"Swinging by the chain? To be suffocated?"
swinging sentinel was posted, and the sea rushed on.
swords to look at, and such delicate honour to the sense of smell, would
Sydney!"
Sydney Carton came and took her up. Only her father and Mr. Lorry were
Sydney Carton drank the punch at a great rate; drank it by bumpers,
Sydney Carton filled another glass with brandy, poured it slowly out
Sydney Carton, idlest and most unpromising of men, was Stryver's great
Sydney Carton looked at his punch and looked at his complacent friend;
Sydney Carton paused in the street, not quite decided where to go. "At
Sydney Carton struck in, in his moody way.
Sydney Carton took no heed, and the chemist said:
Sydney Carton, who, with Mr. Lorry, had been lost in amazement at
Sydney drank a bumper of the punch he had made, and laughed.
Sydney had been working double tides that night, and the night before,
Sydney had not gone far out of sight, when he stopped in the middle of
"Sydney," said Mr. Stryver, on that self-same night, or morning, to his
Sydney," said Mr. Stryver, preparing him with ostentatious friendliness
Sydney turned his eyes again upon the fire, and, after a silence of a
Sydney was none the livelier and none the soberer for so much
syllables that she said to me, by placing my ear close to her lips. She
sympathy and compassion, Mr. Darnay?"
sympathy and humility, while the strong woman, having banished the inn
sympathy with her father. It had evidently been a great distress to
systematically worked it out and supervised it, and that he had meant to
table, and a long winding-sheet in the candle dripping down upon him.
table as it is. I shall be ready in a quarter of an hour."
table, beat them to pieces in a few blows.
table, the waiter shifted his napkin from his right arm to his left,
table trembled in the silence that followed.
tainted by the slain. She only knew that there had been an attack upon
Take care of the dear husband you have recovered, and don't move your
take him backwards and forwards between France and England for a long
take in. Me and two more knows it."
Take me in at the cathedral, at Three o'Clock, or as near it as you can,
take me out. The parting interview has overpowered me. Such a thing has
"Take me to her." Sometimes it was staring and bewildered, and then it
take me to the coach."
taken either out of the Court itself, or one of its rooms or passages.
taken fright at them, and drawn out his money.
taken him last night, and Barsad. The people had all poured out to the
taken his oath on the two Testaments that they were not fit for the
"Take off his head!" cried the audience. "An enemy to the Republic!"
"Take that message back, and they will know that I received this, as
"Take you my knitting," said Madame Defarge, placing it in her
taking her way through the streets, now drew nearer and nearer to the
talked with her, and had looked ominously at him as her fingers moved.
tall man called out again with a most unearthly cry, "Dead!"
tall man with his arms up, crying, "Dead!"
tannery, poor tavern, poor stable-yard for relays of post-horses, poor
taste was so coarse, and whose temper was so overbearing, that he could
taxers and taxed were fast asleep. Dreaming, perhaps, of banquets, as
tear-fraught eyes, "that had the makings in him of one of the best and
tears all of agony that wetted his young mother's cheek, as the spirit
tears upon my face, and his sobs strike against my heart. O, see! Thank
Tea-time, and Miss Pross making tea, with another fit of the jerks upon
telegraph between her and the crowd outside the building.
tell all his wrong. He forced back the gathering shadows of death, as
tell her! It is better as it is."
Tell her, to-night, what you know of her danger as involving her child
tell him, from me, that after abandoning his worldly goods and position
tell me."
"Tell me how and why am I again a prisoner?"
tell me! I left him safe and free within these two hours, and am about
"Tell me what it is."
"Tell me when I ask you, not now. If your suit should prosper, if Lucie
"Tell monsieur what kind of shoe it is, and the maker's name."
Tellson and Company--over to England."
Tellson flavour and blue-mould upon him. Then only was he permitted to
Tellson's.
Tellson's Bank by Temple Bar was an old-fashioned place, even in the
Tellson's Bank, established in the Saint Germain Quarter of Paris, was
Tellson's Bank had a run upon it in the mail. As the bank
Tellson's banking-house at nine," he said, with a musing face. "Shall I
Tellson's. He was detained two hours. When he came back, he ascended the
Tellson's hiding-places, while the depositors rusted in prisons,
Tellson's House since, and I have been busy with the other business of
Tellson's House since. Feelings! I have no time for them, no chance
Tellson's, important as they are to French credit, avoid all naming of
Tellson's. Naturally, therefore, a funeral with this uncommon attendance
Tellson's never to be balanced in this world, must be carried over into
Tellson's shall not be imposed upon."
Tellson's side of the tides to the opposite shore. Brief as such
Tellson's, thank Heaven--!
tells them. Let it deceive them, then, a little longer; it cannot
tell the child my story, with a tender and a faltering voice.
tell who sat here yesterday, and who there the day before.
tell you, here and now, is, that I pray to you to touch me and to bless
tell you," here he addressed his wife once more, "I won't be gone agin,
Temple Bar. Alas! Temple Bar was hundreds of miles away, and Madame
ten."
tenant of his. We were all tenants of his--that man's who stands there.
tendency towards an appearance of vegetating unwillingly--a dejected
tenderness, yet so courageous for his sake, that it called the healthy
tending.
tending to compromise Tellson's, Mr. Lorry advised with Lucie. She said
"Ten minutes, good, past eleven."
"Ten o'clock, sir."
"Ten o'clock, sir," said the man at the tavern, whom he had charged to
tenth morning of his suspense, he was startled by the shining of the sun
terminate our conference for the night?"
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
terms that could sustain it, down in the little village under the mill;
terraces, fountains, green banks, more King and Queen, more Bull's Eye,
terrace staircase, had it borne in upon their starved fancy that
terrible grinding and regrinding in the mill, and certainly not in the
terrible Revolution as if it were the only harvest ever known under
terrified, here were surely cards enough of one black suit, to justify
terrified, my love. I solemnly swear to you that I know of no harm
terror, a word might bring it down upon him. Once denounced, and on such
terror--he stopped at a chemist's shop, which the owner was closing with
terrors with a steady head. No man better known than he, in Paris at
testimony, at whatever personal hazard, to the truth. Was that criminal
than a single syllable could have been spoken on either side.
than crystal to the lords of the State preserves of loaves and fishes,
than I, of how much importance), that I should be able to communicate to
than I was in the souls of both.
"Thank God," said Mr. Lorry, clasping his hands, "that no one near and
"Thank ye, my dear. The precious child is safe in bed?"
thank you again for allowing me to sound you; good night!"
"Thank you. And again, God bless you."
"Thank you," said the Marquis--very sweetly indeed.
than that; Monsieur Manette is, for all reasons, best out of France.
than their own singing. They danced to the popular Revolution song,
than this ruthless woman, now taking her way along the streets. Of a
than two pipes. Word of honour!"
than was given to the stranger, as being himself a man to whom it was no
than wrong, more to me--Well! This is idle talk."
than you were before you knew me--"
that
that."
"that, after all our sympathy for Monsieur her father, and herself, her
that. All such circumstances were indifferent to him, so that he did
"that although it is a long time on the road, it is on the road and
that a morsel of stone or wood, with my husband's name, may be placed
that a petition has been presented to the King himself. What do I know?
that appeared quite supernatural, he forced all these changes upon him.
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
that--as if by agreement--they each put a hand upon his shoulder, and
that as it may, a change in his position making him conscious of a bar
"That at least is true," said Mr. Lorry. "Say no more now. It may be
"That. At the back there."
that be best?"
that because he has slain Monseigneur, and because Monseigneur was the
that, being one day so happy as to make her my wife, I must at any time
that cravat for this of mine, that coat for this of mine. While you do
that day; no man in a stranger situation. Silent, humane, indispensable
"That depends. I may find a use for it one day. If I do--Well," said
That done, with many added sentences of grateful friendship and warm
that each was not more honoured and held sacred in the other's soul,
that ever did murder by wholesale, and you ask me why I am sorry that a
that extent. Mr. Lorry, you cannot control the mincing vanities and
that filled it. I took my young sister (for I have another) to a place
that fine morning.
that first day, until it was too dark to see--worked on, half an hour
that flowed at him, and already broke upon the great windows behind him
That, for these reasons, the jury, being a loyal jury (as he knew they
that functionary's part, the mender of roads, once so submissive to
that gentleman. And look here! Once more!"--Mr. Cruncher could not
that had long fallen asleep, of my pretty young mother (and I so old!),
"That has a bad look," said Darnay--
that _he_ don't get no law-work to do. Don't look like the sort of one
That he had fallen among far greater dangers than those which had
that he had, for feeling confident that he could become involved in no
That he had his reasons for this, he knew full well. It was again a
That he had no recollection whatever of his having been brought from his
that "he had thought better of that marrying matter") had carried his
that he is not worthy of such a daughter, which is no imputation on
that he might have been sitting for his portrait.
That, hereupon he had ascertained, through the registers on the table,
that her father had spoken of hiring a lodging for a short term, in that
that her husband could have looked at her as she was for hours.
that her husband was no longer confined alone, but was mixed with the
that he saw the direction--the more quickly because it was his own right
that he stained with my common blood; he drew to defend himself--thrust
that he thought about it, however confusedly. This encouraged Mr. Lorry
that he took the lead and direction, and required them as the weak, to
that he was dying of a wound from a sharp point.
that he was enraged and made mad by the death of his child; they say
that he _was_ overworked; it would show itself in some renewal of this
that he was virtually sentenced by the millions, and that units could
that he will be torn limb from limb by four strong horses. That old man
that he will presently be summoned for to-morrow, and removed to the
that he would go to Paris.
that his son-in-law was among the living prisoners, and had pleaded hard
that husband, he might have cried to the night--and the words would not
that I could tell her the name and place of abode. Whereas, to this
that if Young Jerry had been superstitious, he might have supposed the
that I had no chance for my life but in rust and repose. It's a gloomy
that I have never seen you since. No; you have been the ward of
that I have thought of nothing but the number of horizontal lines I
that in another moment he was scouring away up a bye-street, after
that, in the narrow streets without footways, the fierce patrician
that invited confidence, and expressing an injured revolutionary
"That is another way of saying that I am placed on the footing I have
that I shall yet stand your friend, if you deserve it, and repent in
"That is the fact."
"That is what I mean to tell you, sir," said Mr. Lorry. "Pray let there
"That is what you are not to ask me. But I think--I know--he does."
that it has been here some time?"
that its effect was delightful. The disposition of everything in the
"that it will seem long to me, while I wait for her in the better land
"That I will, and readily," said Mr. Lorry, "if it is not dangerous."
that looked ill. In the hunted air of the people there was yet some
that Madame Defarge was the family's malevolent enemy.
that magnificent potentate, the Lord Mayor of London, was made to stand
that may depend on both of us!"
That might not be so long as the Marquis supposed. If a picture of the
that Miss Manette will tell well in any station, and will always do me
that Mr. Attorney-General was making ready to speak.
That, Mr. Lorry," said Mr. Cruncher, wiping his forehead with his
that Mr. Lorry, who had never seen the better side of him, was wholly
"That must never be," croaked Jacques Three; "no one must escape. We
"That my father," said Lucie, hurriedly taking the paper from her
"That night, I tell him, when the paper is read through, and the lamp is
That night--it was the fourteenth of August--he sat up late, and wrote
"That night, the last night of the year, towards nine o'clock, a man in
that nobody in the neighbourhood could endure a lamplighter.
that old look of earnestness so concentrated and intensified, that it
that old Sunday under the dear old plane-tree in the garden. If he had
that old trial with forces to which they both looked for Charles's
that part of the procession in which he walked.
That Providence, however, had put it into the heart of a person who
that reminder of his sufferings about him!"
"That's a coincidence, too," the guard mused, "for I made the same of it
"That's a fair young lady to be pitied by and wept for by! How does it
"That's a fair young lady to hand to a coach in the dark, Mr. Darnay!"
that," said Miss Pross.
"That's all. He wishes to have a messenger at hand. This is to tell him
"That's all, messieurs. I left at sunset (as I had been warned to do),
That's a very good card. Mr. Barsad, now in the employ of the republican
that saw nothing but the peril of the accused. This had been so very
"That's business," said Mr. Lorry, resuming on the shortest notice his
that she came to the determination of sparing the poor child the
"that she made to the prisoners; you are ready to bear witness to them
that she showed she was pleased, but I suppose she was."
"That she thinks he has."
that she was like her mother. The other had that likeness too--as you
that sky there, every day. Long live the Devil. Let us go on."
that so."
that, so far as he could judge, it was a wrong and foolish one on
"That's quartering," said Jerry. "Barbarous!"
"That's right; all safe and well! I don't know why anything should be
"That's right, that's right. Courage! Business! You have business before
"That's the name for a thousand pound!" cried Jerry.
That's the sentence."
"That's true," Mr. Lorry acknowledged, with his troubled hand at his
"That's true. Well! It is a forlorn hope at the best, and not much the
That's well, friend Defarge. Come, now. Business, business!"
"That's well. I have known such energy as yours do great things before
that the citizen was his first witness. He also referred with confidence
that the crowd caught it up with eagerness, and loudly repeating the
that the dreadful woman of whose unrelenting character he had seen many
that the letters were not initials, but the complete word, DIG. The
That, the lofty example of this immaculate and unimpeachable witness
that the rain had startled him.
that there Bar, sets that there boy of mine, brought up and growed up to
that there coffin. Don't go and tell me that you buried Cly. It was a
"that the relapse you have described, my dear friend, was not quite
"That there Roger Cly, master," said Mr. Cruncher, with a taciturn and
that the rivers of the South were encumbered with the bodies of the
that they are almost black to my sight--except on the side of the sun
that they had. The two hands of Madame Defarge buffeted and tore her
that they might eat grass, and who died, and went to Hell?"
that, they seemed careless what communication I might hold with her; as
that they twisted straw round their bare legs, and thatched their ragged
that they were awake, was to be atheistical and traitorous.
that they were in--looking on like ghosts in white, while the church
that they would soon be reunited--the little preparations for his speedy
that things in general were settled for ever.
That, this patriot would be produced before them. That, his position and
That time passed, and her little Lucie lay on her bosom. Then, among the
That was all the writing. It was so much, however, to her who received
"That was a rare point, Sydney, that you brought to bear upon the
That was done too, and the Marquis went on with his supper. He was
that was I."
that was laid upon him to awaken any serious fears in his breast; for,
that was Madame Defarge--who leaned against the door-post, knitting, and
that was merely a coincidence. He didn't call it a particularly curious
that we know, consider the faces of all the world that we know, consider
that were changed by the death they had died in coming there.
that would be as final as it is lazy, did it not include the troublesome
that written paper. I have made it my business to examine some specimens
that year, diversified by the blackened remains of burnt houses, and by
that you are essential to her perfect happiness, I will give her to you.
that, you shall not leave here while I can hold you."
The accursed was already under the carriage with some half-dozen
The accused, who was (and who knew he was) being mentally hanged,
the act of putting the note in her bosom, and, with her hands yet at her
the affirmative: seizing the occasion to add that he was the most ardent
the aforesaid, and over and over again aforesaid, Charles Darnay, stood
the afternoon, for three reasons of habit. Firstly, because, on fine
the air, even if poverty and deprivation had not loaded it with their
the air. The only ray of hope that Mr. Lorry could discover, was, that
The allusion served as a timely reminder to Darnay that this
The altercation was conducted in a low tone of voice, and terminated in
The altitude of the gallows that would turn to water and quench it,
The amiable Vengeance added, with a laugh, "Yes, my faith! And you
the angels of that sphere one solitary wife, who, in her manners and
the Angels or the Devils--which you prefer--work!" Thus Defarge of the
"the anguish of his daughter, which must be a dreadful anguish to him!"
The answers to this question were various and contradictory. Sometimes
The answer was always the same: "Almost eighteen years."
the apparitions vanished from his sight forever.
the appearance of strange faces of low caste, rather than in the
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
the approach of darkness. It was almost dark when they arrived at the
the ashes of a paper, mingled with the ashes of a small leathern case
The August of the year one thousand seven hundred and ninety-two was
the back of the chair to lay it on the supplicatory fingers that clasped
the bad deeds and bad reputation of the old family house, in his
the balance of suspense and doubt. How much of the incompleteness of his
the Bank roof. His own possessions, safety, life, he would have hazarded
the Barriers. At another time, our parcels would come and go, as easily
The barrister was keen enough to divine that the banker would not have
The basin fell to the ground broken, and the water flowed to the feet of
the beach. The little narrow, crooked town of Dover hid itself away
the beasts, for whose preservation Monseigneur made edifying spaces
the bed of wigs, like a great sunflower pushing its way at the sun from
the bed until the night was far advanced. She never abated the piercing
the best room, and in it were Lucie's birds, and flowers, and books,
The bill being paid, Charles Darnay rose and wished him good night.
The billet fell as he spoke, and he threw it into a basket.
the black ocean, ready to take that plunge into it upon which Monsieur
the blood that was to mingle with theirs to-morrow was already set
The blue-flies buzzed again, and Mr. Attorney-General called Mr. Jarvis
the boy, or about his fate.
"The boy's eyes had slowly moved to him as he had spoken, and they now
"The boy's eyes, which had been fixed on mine, slowly turned to the
the breath, and having the pulses quickened by expectation.
the broken marks that follow here, I leave off for the time, and put my
the broken reply was, "Wait! It would kill me if I saw her too soon."
The bronze face, the shaggy black hair and beard, the coarse woollen
"The brothers were waiting in a room down-stairs, impatient to ride
The burial-place had got to the pass that its little heaps of poor grass
The burst with which the carriage started out of the village and up the
"the Captain," gallantly shot him through the head and rode away; the
"the Captain's" pay, ranging from the landlord to the lowest stable
"The carriage left the streets behind, passed the North Barrier, and
the carriages of absolute monarchs, the equipages of feudal nobles, the
the carriages of Monseigneur, and, staggering to that gorgeous vehicle,
"The carriage stopped as soon as the driver could rein in his horses,
the case of a shock from which he has recovered, so completely, as to
the cause of his being so oppressed; perhaps, even to the name of his
the cell, with a fellow-citizen who is one of the Jury, directed by a
the ceremonies; but, the river being alarmingly near, and several voices
the chair-back with his left hand, and using his right by turns to rub
"The chateau, and all the race?" inquired the first.
"The chateau and all the race," returned Defarge. "Extermination."
The chateau awoke later, as became its quality, but awoke gradually and
The chateau burned; the nearest trees, laid hold of by the fire,
the chateau of Monsieur the Marquis, now in his grave, listened to
The chateau was left to itself to flame and burn. In the roaring and
"The child also," observed Jacques Three, with a meditative enjoyment
the chocolate-pot into the sacred presence; a second, milled and frothed
the chocolate with the little instrument he bore for that function;
the Circumference, and was even to be shoved back into the Centre,
the Citizen and Citizeness Defarge. And by one other."
"The citizeness is superb!" croaked the Juryman.
"The Citizen Evremonde, called Darnay," said the first.
The citizen here indicated nodded his head, and added:
The clocks are on the stroke of three, and the furrow ploughed among the
the coach, as if it were in a state of agitation. The hearts of the
the coach doors and greedily stare in; a little child, carried by its
The coach lumbered on again, with heavier wreaths of mist closing round
the coachman, and the two other passengers eyed him distrustfully.
the coach was immediately filled with eight inside and a dozen out,
The coffee-room had no other occupant, that forenoon, than the gentleman
the collection of rent and taxes--though it was but a small instalment
The Concord bed-chamber being always assigned to a passenger by the
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
The corner being out of the way of the idle and curious, and the
The corner has been mentioned as a wonderful corner for echoes; it
the corner, with hearts that failed them when they heard the thronging
the counsel for and against. Among the lookers-on there was the same
the counter, and showed what they wanted.
the course of my business day; in short, I have no feelings; I am a mere
The court was all astir and a-buzz, when the black sheep--whom many fell
the court were now being lighted. It began to be rumoured that the
the courtyard here, even to the taking of your own seat in the carriage.
the cows are there with the rest. At midday, the roll of drums. Soldiers
the crag. At the gate, a group of officers were looking at the fire;
"The crime for which I am imprisoned, Monsieur heretofore the Marquis,
the crowd of ladies of quality and fashion, who were full of eager
the crowd of worshippers in the suite of rooms without. Monseigneur
the cry most taken up by the sea that rushed in, as if there were an
the curtain at the head of the bed when I was there. But when it came to
the dark London window.
the day closed in that the son-in-law of the despatched, another of the
"The day I left England!"
the day of the week, and the day of the month, set him thinking and
the day passed quickly. Early in the evening he embraced her, and her
The dead man disposed of, and the crowd being under the necessity of
the dead of the night, and will be heard, by us overhead there, walking
the death of me. I shall be rendered Suspected, by my own sister. Just
the decree; he had been taken in France, and his head was demanded.
The deepened marks in the nose, and the lengthening of the fine straight
The Defarges, husband and wife, came lumbering under the starlight,
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
the defendant threw up his brief, and the jury did not even turn to
The dejected Mrs. Cruncher shook her head.
the descent, and open the coach-door to let the passengers in.
the difficulty of taking Miss Pross in it had much engaged Mr. Lorry's
The discreet Mr. Lorry said, in a sample tone of the voice he would
the disjointed time.
the disordered arrangement of his loose cravat, and his coat-collar, and
the distant beating of the military drums in the Palace Courtyard, as
the distant streets, and not one within sight.
The Doctor grasped his hand, and murmured, "That was very kind. That was
The Doctor had taken care that it should be there--had assured him that
The Doctor, in a low voice, asked, "Of how long duration?"
the Doctor lived. Ever busily winding the golden thread which bound
The Doctor looked at him for a moment--half inquiringly, half as if he
The Doctor looked desolately round the room, shook his head, and
The Doctor sat with his face turned away, and his eyes bent on the
the Doctor's consulting-room, used also as the dining-room; the third,
The Doctor shaded his forehead with his hand, and beat his foot
the Doctor's lodgings commanded a pleasant little vista of street that
the Doctor spoke:
The Doctor turned his eyes upon that man. Who moved uneasily on his
The Doctor turned, with his hand upon the fastening of the window, and
The Doctor was in his best condition, and looked specially young. The
the door.
the door, and there expounded her further views to them thus:
the door belonged, through some chinks or holes in the wall. On hearing
The door closed, and Carton was left alone. Straining his powers of
"The door is locked then, my friend?" said Mr. Lorry, surprised.
the door of the chamber which Lucie had occupied.
The door of the Doctor's room opened, and he came out with Charles
the door slowly open, and said, as they all bent their heads and passed
The door slowly opened inward under his hand, and he looked into the
The door was quickly opened and closed, and there stood before him
The Dover mail was in its usual genial position that the guard suspected
The Dover road lay, as to him, beyond the Dover mail, as it lumbered up
the drawer of the prisoner's desk. He had not put them there first. He
the dreadful carts were rolling through the streets. Her mind pursued
The dread tribunal of five Judges, Public Prosecutor, and determined
the dregs of it.
The drunken patriot had them in his cap, and produced them. Casting his
the dusk of the ninth evening.
the earth that could be eaten. Expressive signs of what made them poor,
the echoes about which you have your theory."
the echoes out to be the echoes of all the footsteps that are coming
The Echoes rarely answered to the actual tread of Sydney Carton. Some
the elbows. Neither did he wear anything more on his head than his own
"The elder brother looked to the younger, who said haughtily, 'There is
the elegant variety and contrast obtained by thrift in trifles, by
the eloquent, struck down the powerful, abolished the beautiful and
thee. Louder yet, Vengeance, with a little oath or so added, and yet
The emphatic horse, cut short by the whip in a most decided negative,
the empty office until they bowed another customer in.
The end of the first book.
The end of the second book.
The English customer was not without his reflections then, that it might
the English traitor and agent of all mischief so much spoken of and so
The entrance of the Judge, and a consequent great stir and settling
The escorted governed his own horse, but a loose line was attached to
The escort were two mounted patriots in red caps and tri-coloured
the exact figure that Defarge had had in keeping.
the expression of prisoners' faces fresh in his mind, he was strongly
the expression of the faces was altered. A rumour just lived in the
the eyes of every man there were turned upon them.
the eyes of the body, of his two companions. In those days, travellers
the face."
the faintness of solitude and disuse. It was like the last feeble echo
The faintness of the voice was pitiable and dreadful. It was not the
the family. If you please, committing you in no way, representing you
the Farmer, Death, had already set apart to be his tumbrils of
The fashion of the last Louis but one, of the line that was never to
the feeble shining of this earth of ours, every thought and act, every
The fellow pointed to his joke with immense significance, as is often
The fellow was brought, cap in hand, and the other fellows closed round
The figure in the chair between them, was all the time monotonously
The figures of a horse and rider came slowly through the eddying mist,
"The figure was not; the--the--image; the fancy?"
the finest breeding, which was at that remarkable time--and has been
The fingers of the knitting women were vicious, with the experience that
the fire, a young lady of not more than seventeen, in a riding-cloak,
the first spray of it in its advance had begun to overwhelm the city.
The five had had, it is true, no audience to lengthen their proceedings,
the foe of England and friend of the United States--as he brought these
The footsteps were incessant, and the hurry of them became more and more
The forlorn smile with which she said it, so touched him, that tears
the fortnight's end, he comes to join you and your beloved husband, on
The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
the fountain, and the mender of roads with his blue cap pointing out the
The fountain in the village flowed unseen and unheard, and the fountain
the fountain, there is raised a gallows forty feet high, poisoning the
The fountain was a little removed; for the street opened, where it was,
the four blackened walls, and a rusted iron ring in one of them.
The four surrounded him, where he stood with his wife and child clinging
The friends of the acquitted prisoner had dispersed, under the
THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
the gaoler made a general inspection of these objects, and of the four
The gaoler's wife, being provided with no answer to the question, merely
the garret.
The garret, built to be a depository for firewood and the like, was dim
the garret of Saint Antoine, she had been true to her duties. She was
the gates, for Eternal Sleep; in the abounding gaols; and in the streets
the gate, standing silent behind him.
the gaunt pier-glass behind her, on the frame of which, a hospital
the general gaze from the foundations of the world--the figure of the
The gentleman from Tellson's had nothing left for it but to empty his
the German ballad of Leonora?
the ghastly, fire-charred, plunder-wrecked rains. As for the roof
"The ghosts that vanished when the wicket closed. There was one among
the gifts bestowed upon him towards the execution of this benevolent
The Gorgon had surveyed the building again in the night, and had added
"The gracious and merciful Heavens forbid!" cried Miss Pross. "Far
The great bell of Saint Paul's was striking one in the cleared air, when
The great door clanged behind him, and Monsieur the Marquis crossed a
the greater part were armed in various ways; of the women, some wore
The great grindstone, Earth, had turned when Mr. Lorry looked out again,
the grindstone brought their faces up, were more horrible and cruel than
The grindstone had a double handle, and, turning at it madly were two
the ground.
the Guards came, and perhaps they never came, and this was the usual
The half-dozen who were peering at the chain were still among the
the hall, among the old spears and knives, and passed lamenting up the
the hand dropped to his work, and he once more bent over the shoe. The
The hands of the clock verging upon the hour of closing the Bank, there
The happiness of his own chosen English home, the necessity of being
The having originated a precaution which was already in course of
the hazard of originating any other kind of action.
the head drawer at the Royal George Hotel opened the coach-door as his
The head of one of the regular indoor messengers attached to Tellson's
the hearths for the burning of wood in winter time, and all luxuries
The hoarse messenger, uncomfortably seated on a form after taking that
the holder in growing rather livid as he turned them over.
the honest tradesman's kicking off his clay-soiled boots, and lying down
the honour to seek my assistance, and what is the nature of the case to
the hope of his coming to himself. If that should happen soon, he kept
the hopes and fears and anxieties with which it has long been
the horses, and had laid it on the basement of the fountain, and was
the horses; as to which cattle he could with a clear conscience have
the Hotel de Ville, and might be loosed. Never, if Saint Antoine knew
the hour of my death, I shall hold sacred the one good remembrance--and
The hours went on as he walked to and fro, and the clocks struck the
The hour was come, when Saint Antoine was to execute his horrible idea
the hour when she had taken the white head to her fresh young bosom in
the House again, "you are to remember, that getting things out of
the house, and the echoes in the corner before it, had their own way
The House approached Mr. Lorry, and laying a soiled and unopened letter
"the House," you were put into a species of Condemned Hold at the back,
The hungry man gnawed one of his fingers as he looked at the other
The hungry man repeated, in a rapturous croak, "Magnificent!" and began
the idea? If the thing were gone, my dear Manette, might not the fear go
The idea was so acceptable in the prevalent absence of any idea,
the image had been hammering into this for hundreds of years, and the
the immortal boy, and also of a looking-glass let into the wall, and
the impression that the Christian era dated from the invention of a
the improvement Time has brought about in such habits, that a moderate
the infallible resource and indispensable entertainment of his village
"The instruments of torture!"
their arms on the counter close together, speaking low. After a silence
their arrangements to follow the coach, even as Madame Defarge,
their backs, may have to do some day--work."
their choice on earth was stated in the prospect--Life on the lowest
their conductor, he drew over his neck the arm that shook upon his
Their conference was very short, but very decided. Almost at the first
their conversation.
their dear child to his care, and dwelling on the same topics with the
their descendants, generations hence. I see her, an old woman, weeping
their dozing eyes and wandering thoughts suggested.
their duty.
their exile; that, so far from being in favour with the Aristocrat
their eyes and sat silent. Except one man, who got up and went out.
their fate. They were in number as the weeks of the year. Fifty-two were
their frenzied eyes;--eyes which any unbrutalised beholder would have
their furniture to upholsterers' warehouses for security; the highwayman
their heads, and a few shook their fingers at him as an aristocrat;
their heads upon their pillows; that, they never could endure the notion
Their housekeeping was of a very frugal kind: not only because that was
their length above his head, and staring at him. "Dead!"
their lives, and making it predominate nowhere, Lucie heard in the
their long shadows are on the hollow ridge on the opposite side of the
their medical eyes at that tradesman on the sly, a going in and going
their money, make wrong additions, and arrive at dissatisfied results.
their owner, in years gone by, some pains to drill to the composed and
their own sombre lives. He knew enough of the world to know that there
their riding-whips, and loitering up and down.
their sharpness, had been gradually restored to him. He was now a
their swollen account of cruel rage. No man can decide now to which of
their swords. The leading curiosity is, to know which is he; he stands
their travelling backwards and forwards betwixt London and Paris, sir. A
their triumphs and defeats, through long years to come, I see the evil
their turn for examination to be so far off, that they lay down on the
their watches and purses in their boots, and were now making a general
The jackal removed the towels from his head, which had been steaming
the joints? Why, I am a boy, sir, to half a dozen old codgers here!"
The Judges having to take part in a public demonstration out of doors,
The Judge, whose eyes had gone in the general direction, recalled them,
the Jury, but at nothing else. Under the President sat Doctor Manette,
the Jury, stood drinking at the little counter, in conversation with the
The keeper of the wine-shop stopped to strike the wall with his hand,
The key was put in the lock, and turned. Before the door was opened, or
the kindled eyes, the resolute face, the calm strong look and bearing
the knitting-women, never faltering or pausing in their Work, count Two.
The lady in question, whose rooted conviction that she was more than a
"The lady was young, engaging, and handsome, but not marked for long
the lamp yonder!" cried Saint Antoine, after glaring round for a new
The last burst carried the mail to the summit of the hill. The horses
"The last chance is gone: it was not much. Yes; he had better be taken
The last of the three now said his say, as he put down his empty
The latent uneasiness in Darnay's mind was roused to vigourous life
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
The learned profession of the law was certainly not behind any other
the length of a few of these streets, I should be more unhappy and
The leprosy of unreality disfigured every human creature in attendance
the life of the late King, Louis Fifteen. But how do I know if he lies?
the lighter streets.
the lightning? Tell me."
the light of her face, the touch of her hand, had a strong beneficial
the light of this later time, they would appear. Troubled as the future
the line round his wrist), Darnay said, as soon as he could make his
The lion then composed himself on his back on a sofa on one side of the
the little bundle lying on the step, the women bending over it, and the
"The little child was a daughter, sir."
the little household, Miss Pross took charge of the lower regions, and
the little Lucie, comically studious at the task of the morning, or
the little street, bereft of horses, and with no likelihood upon it
the living of the poorer prisoners. Partly on this account, and
the locked room, "murdering the prisoners. If you are sure of what you
the long, long night, with no return of her father and no tidings!
the love of Liberty;" which sounded in that place like an inappropriate
them.
the magic secret, my darling, of your being everything to all of us,
the majesty of the people, in that I have acted against them for an
them all lean upon him.
the man.
The man cries, "Down, Evremonde! To the Guillotine all aristocrats!
them and brought them to a stand, with a wary "Wo-ho! so-ho-then!" the
them, and telling Miss Pross how she spoilt Lucie, in accents and with
them, and then astonishment. He pressed the work-worn, hunger-worn young
them, and we parted without another word on either side.
The man looked at him, looked at the village in the hollow, at the mill,
The man moved a little further away, as soon as he could, and the mender
"The manner of both was imperious, and they both moved, as these words
the manner of his reference. He only seemed to contrast his present
the manner of its composition, so, sublimer intelligences may read in
The man never trod ground whose virtues and services would have
The man obeyed, and Defarge followed the light closely with his eyes.
the man sitting as President had then informed Doctor Manette that
The man slept on, indifferent to showers of hail and intervals of
the man who opened it, with his heavy riding glove, across the face.
the Marquis, one little bird sang its sweetest song with all its might.
the Marquis. Perhaps, to observe whether he had any spectre on his
The Marquis took a gentle little pinch of snuff, and shook his head;
The marriage-day was shining brightly, and they were ready outside the
them as the family friend, talking, reading, looking out of window, and
them at once, and get them out of the way, like an excellent man."
the matter. I carry about me, not a scrap of writing openly referring
the mature Jerry bit and spat out straw, while the twinkling eyes of the
them away.
"The meaning, monsieur?"
the memorable time when he had revealed his own desolate heart to
The mender of roads, blue cap in hand, wiped his swarthy forehead with
the mender of roads having got his tools together and all things ready
The mender of roads looked _through_ rather than _at_ the low ceiling,
The mender of roads was now coming to himself, and was mistrustful of
the mender of roads went forth daily to hammer out of the stones on the
The mender of roads went home, with the dust going on before him
The men were terrible, in the bloody-minded anger with which they looked
the men when the place is taken!" And to her, with a shrill thirsty
the merits of the cards should not rest solely between you and me. Come
The messenger rode back at an easy trot, stopping pretty often at
them from the face of the earth, and doing without them: and for
the middle of the street--when it ran at all: which was only after heavy
the midst of the wreck of papers a table shone, with plenty of wine upon
the miserable people, and having abandoned something to them," he spoke
The miserable shop of the wood-sawyer was so small, that its whole
the misfortunes of a friend now very unfortunate, I walked in your
them knew what his men would do--beyond this: that it would probably not
them, looking for him among the Condemned; and then she clung closer to
The moment I come to you, take me in, and drive away."
the moment I lose sight," touching the back of the Doctor's chair, "even
the moment, in some adjacent room, until, having got past the two tall
the moon is plunging after us, and the whole wild night is in pursuit of
the moon on this last night.--What did I say just now?"
the more belligerent spirits, a rumour got about that the Guards were
the morning. He even showed surprise when he saw Mr. Lorry, and was
them. Quick!"
them right, half of the half-dozen had become members of a fantastic
themselves and in their children, poverty, nakedness, hunger, thirst,
themselves, and so expressive of their originator, that, as Mr. Lorry
themselves, at anybody's cost, to a view of him--stood a-tiptoe, got
themselves to be the three of one name who had been drinking in the
themselves to the saint's mercies. The lamps across his streets had a
themselves were elephants, or something as far removed), until they met
them. That I do so is no subject for regret or grief.'" As he said these
them, the appearance of a lady dressed in black, who was leaning in the
them), the gaoler opened a low black door, and they passed into a
them, they asked him no question, for his face told them everything.
them, though young in years, was old in the treasonable practices which
them, to see that they were not painful. The only spark of encouragement
them, until the sun was low in the west, and the sky was glowing. Then,
them up." Ogre that he was, he spoke like an epicure.
The murmuring of many voices, the upturning of many faces, the pressing
them with the great keys and the feebly-burning candle, and found them
them, you!"
the mystery about him of having feigned death and come to life again!
Then, a flickering streak played behind the architecture of the front,
The name of the strong man of Old Scripture had descended to the chief
the name of the thing she wanted, to look round for that thing, lay hold
then, and if you see any signs of more flopping, give me a call. For, I
then, and turned to Darnay:
then, and was extremely anxious to see the gentleman from Tellson's
Then, as the darkness closed in, the daughter laid her head down on the
Then, began one of those extraordinary scenes with which the populace
"Then be so kind," urged Miss Manette, "as to leave us here. You see how
The necessity of being angry in a suppressed tone had put Mr. Stryver's
the necessity of leaving Paris, with them and you, at that hour. Tell
the neighbouring cesspools, and evil communications corrupted its good
The nervousness and dread that were upon him inspired that vague
the news-Exchange, and was filled to overflowing. It was within half an
"The news is of him. He is among us!"
the next; no man could have said, that night, any more than Mr. Jarvis
then for England!"
then got shot dead himself by the other four, "in consequence of the
Then he began grumbling again:
then he points his finger, with something of the complacency of a
"Then hold your meddlesome tongue," said Solomon, "and come out, if you
the night, and half from the overcast day, was in a correspondingly
the night, and might, but for a chance, have done to him.
The night comes on dark. He moves more; he is beginning to revive, and
The night deepened. The trees environing the old chateau, keeping its
The night was hot, and the shop, close shut and surrounded by so foul a
The night was so very sultry, that although they sat with doors and
The night wore out, and, as he stood upon the bridge listening to the
then I have imagined them the footsteps of the people who are to come
"Then I say yes," said Stryver: "I won't go up there now, I am not so
Then, issuing from the obscure corner from which he had never moved,
"Then I tell you again, Mr. Darnay, I am sorry for it. I am sorry to
"Then I think I wouldn't, if I was you."
"Then, I think," said Mr. Lorry, "that I was very unhandsomely dealt
then, leaned over him, and looked at him.
"Then, like the best of men," said Miss Pross, "go to the posting-house
Then madame, with her teeth set, tied a very terrible knot indeed.
Then Mr. Stryver turned and burst out of the Bank, causing such a
then or afterwards, seemed to be concentrated on the ceiling of the
the North, in fell and forest, in the vineyards and the olive-grounds
then rode forward again when all the town was asleep. Among the many
"Then," said he of Saint Antoine, with a strange look, "you will be
"Then say the prisoner."
"Then tell Wind and Fire where to stop," returned madame; "but don't
Then, they elevated into the vacant chair a young woman from the
then, though no one was ever presented to her consciousness save the
then, to persuade her husband to use his influence with her, to make her
"Then what on earth is your meaning, Mr. Lorry?" demanded Stryver,
"Then why not change it?"
"Then, why should I go there?"
"Then why the devil don't you dine? I dined, myself, while those
"'Then, with that man's permission and even with his aid, his
"Then you mean to tell me, Mr. Lorry," said Stryver, squaring his
"Then you shall likewise know why. I am a disappointed drudge, sir. I
The object of all this staring and blaring, was a young man of about
The obscurity was so difficult to penetrate that Mr. Lorry, picking his
the observation of Tellson's, in the further corner of the mourning
"The occupation resumed under the influence of this passing affliction
the offensive.
The officer looked up from his slip of paper for a moment.
The official turned towards him with sudden distrust. He had not
The officiating undertakers made some protest against these changes in
the Old Bailey in their lives, in the realisation of this fancy, and
The old man kissed her, and hurried her into his room, and turned the
The old man uttered an irrepressible cry. Almost at the same moment, the
the old, perishing by this retributive instrument, before it shall cease
the old scared lost look that troubled Mr. Lorry; and through his absent
"The old Sydney Carton of old Shrewsbury School," said Stryver, nodding
the one stone face wanting; the stone face for which it had waited
the open air. A hackney-coach was called, and the father and daughter
The opened half-door was opened a little further, and secured at that
the opinion he had been, in his anxiety, so anxious to obtain.
theory of his own, preserved through all those years, relative to
The other is his brother, the worst of a bad race.'
"The other patient lay in a back room across a second staircase, which
the others listening to him; of the weapons worn, or laid aside to be
the others who were brought there to have their arms bound. Some were
the outward aspect of a Frenchman and a thorough Republican; the woman,
the owl by men-poets. But it is the obstinate custom of such creatures
The pace was suddenly checked, and, with much splashing and floundering,
the paper quite in the far-off perspective, lowered displeased, as if
The papers are handed out, and read.
the paper was read."
The passage to the Conciergerie was short and dark; the night in its
The passenger booked by this history, was on the coach-step, getting in;
the passengers, the passengers suspected one another and the guard, they
"The patient was a woman of great beauty, and young; assuredly not much
the pauses of his quick and laboured breathing, he was heard to say:
the pavement in that spot, and the figure that stood beside him was the
the peaches ripened in their season.
The pen dropped from Darnay's fingers on the table, and he looked about
The people closed round, and looked at Monsieur the Marquis. There was
The people immediately behind Madame Defarge, explaining the cause of
The People is supreme. Evremonde, we are pressed."
the people moved, that tears immediately rolled down several ferocious
the people of the chateau, and some of those of the posting-house, and
the people out of all the working of the Guillotine; with a solemn
the perplexity of the brain, and by substituting, as he became more
The picture produced an immense sensation in the little crowd; but all
"The picturesque doctor's daughter, Miss Manette."
the pile of building massive and dark in the gloom. Up the two terrace
the place, fagots for firing, and a heap of apples in sand. I had to
The place had a soothing influence on him. He procured a pipe from a
The plaintive tone of her compassion merged into the less musical voice
"The pleasure of conversing with you, Monsieur Defarge, recalls to me,"
The populace cried enthusiastically, "No!" and the President rang his
the posting-house.
the posting-house; now, they are turned towards the prison. They
The postmaster interposed himself between this man and the rider's
the President.
the President."
The President asked, was the Accused openly denounced or secretly?
The President asked, why had he returned to France when he did, and not
The President rang his bell to silence those cries, and asked the
The President required the name of that citizen. The accused explained
the pretence will be the common one, a prison plot, and that it will
the prison, and their guns ring on the stones of the little street.
the prisoner, and to keep an eye upon him, soon afterwards. In arranging
The prisoner bent over the paper, once more.
The prisoner came forward directly.
the prisoner Evremonde at La Force!" and a thousand answering shouts.
The prisoner had got into a coach, and his daughter had followed
the prisoner leaning against the wall opposite to him, that this gaoler
The prisoner looked up, at each question. Carton, standing over him with
the prisoner must remain in custody, but should, for his sake, be held
"The prisoner's."
"The Prisoners!"
The prisoner turned his face partly aside.
"The prisoner was as open in his confidence with me--which arose out
The prisoner was like a young child in his hands.
The prisoner was so good as to beg permission to advise me how I could
The prisoner wrung his hand.
the prison every day. "She came out here," he said, looking about him,
The prison of La Force was a gloomy prison, dark and filthy, and with a
the prisons, that all political prisoners had been in danger, and that
The Project Gutenberg EBook of A Tale of Two Cities, by Charles Dickens
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."
The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
The prosperous patronage with which he said it, made him look twice as
the public current of the time set too strong and fast for him. The new
the puddles with little mugs of mutilated earthenware, or even with
the purpose."
"The quartering one, eh?"
the questionable public virtues of antiquity, and for sacrifices and
the question is still where?"
The question was addressed to the wood-sawyer, who hurriedly replied in
The quiet lodgings of Doctor Manette were in a quiet street-corner not
the rage and discontent to which the Jacquerie addresses itself with
"The rain-drops are still falling, large, heavy, and few," said Doctor
the rain falls, impartially, on the dusty, ragged, and toil-worn group
there.
there a little--listening perhaps. Then, they moved away on their hands
there, and all will be well."
there, and can show the way. Gentlemen, adieu!"
there, and that he was prayed to come to it. In a little while he came.
there, and there was a saddling of a horse and riding away. There was
there, and you were among the first to enter the accursed fortress when
There appearing to be no other door on that floor, and the keeper of
there; are they right?"
"There are two other points," said Mr. Lorry, "on which I am anxious to
there before him upon his trial; that the jury were swearing in; and
there; but lingered at a little distance, and turned back to the gate
there; but, twenty places in the projected entertainments had to be
"There. Confound it! There," said Solomon, making a dab at Miss Pross's
"The Records!"
there, especially at first, the inundation started on them and swept by;
there for a few moments alone, looking up at the light in the window of
therefore. Come hither, little citizen."
therefore how could you know it? Nonsense!"
therefore made arrangements to absent himself from Tellson's for the
therefore travelling under an assumed name. He said that this business
Therefore, when Sunday came, the mender of roads was not enchanted
Therefore, when the breakfast was done and cleared away, and he and the
there for their purpose, as in a convenient and retired spot.
there forty feet high--and is left hanging, poisoning the water."
there: gradually, as a tempter and an eavesdropper among the natives. He
there had been any eyes to notice the influence of her look, on Sydney
There had been earlier drinking than usual in the wine-shop of Monsieur
there had long been a dread lurking in his mind, that those associations
there, had struck him a poisoned blow.
There happened to be no customer in the shop but Jacques Three, of the
there has been," he paused and took a deep breath--"a slight relapse."
There, his eyes happening to catch the tall joker writing up his joke,
"There! I beg your pardon!" said Stryver.
there in a lethargy, worn out. She had nestled down with him, that his
there in the air. As everything turned upon her, and revolved about her,
"There is a great crowd coming one day into our lives, if that be so,"
There is a guard of sundry horsemen riding abreast of the tumbrils,
"'There is another patient.'
there is in it. People are so unreasonable! Some of us at Tellson's are
"There is no better," the voluble Vengeance protested in her shrill
"There is no doubt of the Jury?" inquired Madame Defarge, letting her
there is no friendship in them, no particular interest, nothing like
there is no one there."
"There is nothing to apprehend. I belong to Tellson's Bank. You must
"There is no time to lose. I am well prepared, but there are precautions
"There is not," pursued the nephew, in his former tone, "a face I can
"'There is prodigious strength,' I answered him, 'in sorrow and
there. It is a pretty sight!"
the relish of fraternal embraces and congratulations, when Madame
the remembrance of the living, and in the next generation my place was a
the remembrance that I opened my heart to you, last of all the world;
The remodelled procession started, with a chimney-sweep driving the
there never more could be, for them or theirs, any laying of heads upon
"There never was, nor will be, but one man worthy of Ladybird," said
there--not because he was not wanted there; our English reasons for
thereof are mine, saith Monseigneur."
thereof not lying on his head--they should all be obliterated for her
There ought to have been a tranquil bark in such an anchorage, and
"The reply to this was made by him who had spoken second. 'Doctor,
"There's all manner of things wanted," said Miss Pross, "and we shall
"Therese Defarge, his wife."
there! See now, see now! The best and the worst are known to you, now.
The resemblance was not lessened by the accidental circumstance, that
"Therese!" she cries, in her shrill tones. "Who has seen her? Therese
there's no telling at the present time what you may not come to be fit
"There, there, there! I hope she is, my dear man," cried the distracted
"There they are, Sydney. Fire away!"
there, to cut off little streams of wine that started away in new
the Revolution. But that Woodman and that Farmer, though they work
There was a blank silence.
There was a chair against the wall of the cell, behind the prisoner.
There was a change on the village where the fountain fell, and where
There was a great hurry in the streets of people speeding away to
There was a longer pause than usual, before the shoemaker replied:
There was a murmur of commiseration as Charles Darnay crossed the room
There was a murmur of confidence and approval, and then the man who
There was an immediate dispersal for these restoratives, and she
There was another blank silence before her father rejoined:
There was another silence.
there was any opportunity or capacity of sacrifice in it, I would
There was a small, heavily-grated, unglazed window high in the wall,
There was a steaming mist in all the hollows, and it had roamed in its
There was but a gaoler left, along with two of the four men who had
There was much commiseration for her as she was removed, and much
There was no fish for breakfast, and not much of anything else. Mr.
There was no one bidden to the marriage but Mr. Lorry; there was even to
There was no pause, no pity, no peace, no interval of relenting rest, no
"There was nothing in this action to attract my particular attention,
"There was no touch of pity, sorrow, or kindred humanity, in this
there was only one mourner, dressed in the dingy trappings that were
there was--or so Darnay thought--of his softening in any slight degree.
There was something in its touch that gave Lucie a check. She stopped in
There was something so bright and remarkable in his look, that, for the
there was. The Doctor occupied two floors of a large stiff house, where
there was to give--such fuel as the heavy creditors would let them have
There were a king with a large jaw and a queen with a plain face, on the
there were beams across. Hay and straw were stored in that portion of
There were hurried words of farewell and kindness, but the parting was
There were in the cell, a chair, a table, and a straw mattress. As
There were many women at that time, upon whom the time laid a dreadfully
there were tears in his eyes. There were tears in his voice too, as he
There were three rooms on a floor, and, the doors by which they
"There will be a packet to Calais, tomorrow, drawer?"
there." With that advice, he wiped his soiled hand upon the joker's
there--with the apparitions of the coquette, the young beauty, and the
The rider from the chateau, and the horse in a foam, clattered away
The ringing of the bell had caused the adjoining bed-chamber to be
the rising sun found hanging across once-peaceful streets, where they
the road behind him, but he knew it to be another iron door in
"The road is clear, my dearest. So far, we are not pursued."
the road might be a robber or in league with robbers. As to the latter,
the room or rooms within every door that opened on the general
"The room was darkening to his sight; the world was narrowing around
the ruffian herd. They will recompense him now, I hope, as he deserves."
the rushes of an angry ocean which had now no ebb, but was always on the
the sacristan who kept the keys of the church, that there might be need
the safest dwelling-place in the distracted state of the city. But, the
the safest way of life, involving the least offence to the people, but
the Saint Antoine suburb. It was not difficult for one who knew the city
the same attitude some seventeen years ago.
the same fate. Curious to consider how heedless flies are!--perhaps they
the same fruit according to its kind.
the same. How can it be! When was it! How was it!"
The same shadows that are falling on the prison, are falling, in that
the same speech out of him as before the Bastille fell, or old Foulon
the scared blank wonder of his face. Whether he knew what had happened,
The scene was Mr. Cruncher's private lodging in Hanging-sword-alley,
The sea of black and threatening waters, and of destructive upheaving
These are again the words of Jarvis Lorry, as he clasps his hands, and
the sea rose immeasurably wider and higher, and swept Defarge of the
the seat where he had observed her sitting, and came to speak to him.
these, beating their breasts, tearing their hair, and screaming, Foulon
these circumstances he had yielded:--not without disquiet, but still
the second, that it must be kept secret from all who knew him. In
the second time; but, now they seemed to have got a bite. There was a
The second tumbril empties and moves on; the third comes up. Crash!--And
"The secret cells!"
the Section of Saint Antoine. This citizen," pointing out the second who
these dread powers, Doctor Manette?"
these. Every town-gate and village taxing-house had its band of
these fools believe that it will last for ever. Then, they are the more
"These fools know nothing. While they despise your breath, and would
These measures, advisable to be taken in any case, Mr. Lorry took in
these men--a man with a grey head, who had a lighted torch in his
these motives such extraordinary scenes were referable; it is probable,
the sentence, as if she had been mortally stricken. But, she uttered no
These occupations brought her round to the December month, wherein her
these people should know there is such a man as I here; it is a sound
these Redheads will be drinking, wherever we buy it."
the series that was barred between him and England. The universal
The servant who spoke, had thrown the blinds wide, had looked out into
"These scraps of paper fail me. One was taken from me, with a warning,
these street stones?"
These, the people tore to pieces and scattered far and wide with great
these things became the established order and nature of appointed
These things were within Mr. Jarvis Lorry's knowledge, thoughts, and
These three young gentlemen, Mr. Stryver, exuding patronage of the most
These were among the echoes to which Lucie, sometimes pensive, sometimes
"These words are formed by the rusty iron point with which I write with
these years, who ought to be?"
The shadow attendant on Madame Defarge and her party seemed to fall so
The shadow of a large high-roofed house, and of many over-hanging trees,
The shadows of the wintry afternoon were beginning to fall, and even now
the shady house was sunny with a child's laugh, and the Divine friend of
The Sheep of the prisons turned from him to Sydney Carton, and said,
The shining Bull's Eye of the Court was gone, or it would have been the
the ship and crew were in peril of tempest.
The shoe dropped to the ground, and he sat looking fixedly at the
The shoemaker looked up as before, but without removing a hand from his
The shoemaker stopped his work; looked with a vacant air of listening,
the shore--three years of tempest were consumed. Three more birthdays
the shoulder, and said:
the shoulder like a ghostly bailiff.
The show being over, the flutter in the air became quite a little storm,
"The shrieks and the cries were audible there, though subdued by the
the side of a door, and who were intently looking into the room to which
the side of that infernal dog's who has just left us?"
the side of the bed for half an hour, with the two brothers looking on,
the side of the grindstone, and looking about him with a vacant air.
the sight of men. Mr. Cruncher, sitting on a stool in a public place,
the sight of you."
The sights he had seen there, with brief snatches of food and sleep by
the simple fact, without comment, that I have been thrown into the
the sister can be discovered.'
the situation, nor assumed any theatrical air in it. He was quiet and
the skies that had not been sown--as if nothing had ever been done, or
the small moneys that had been taken during her absence, examined the
the smear of blood. Shouldering one another to get next at the
the smoke--in the fire and in the smoke, for the sea cast him up against
The smooth manner of the spy, curiously in dissonance with his
the society--in secret."
The sort of interest with which this man was stared and breathed at,
The sound of a horse at a gallop came fast and furiously up the hill.
The spare hand does not tremble as he releases it; nothing worse than
the speaker, and taking him, not ungently, by the loose front of his red
The speaker who struck in, was Sydney Carton. He had his hands behind
the special benefit of Mr. Lorry. She had installed herself, some
The spectators saw in the two figures, a young lady of little more than
the spot, and that he will very certainly be executed. They even whisper
the Spy and prison-sheep. He looks into the first of them: not there.
The spy looked round at the two gentlemen; they both looked in
The spy, well used to his business, did not change his unconscious
The spy, who was there to pick up any crumbs he could find or make, did
The Spy withdrew, and Carton seated himself at the table, resting his
the staircase to a door in a corridor. This thrown open, admitted him
the staircase to their rooms. There, he laid her down on a couch, where
the stairs. The instant he entered the room, it was plain that all was
the staring curiosity that looked on, could, for the moment, nerve him
the starved usually do, and of ease and rest, as the driven slave and
The staunch old gentleman was still in his trust; had never left it. He
the steps had gone; but, echoes of other steps that never came would be
The stillness consequent on the cessation of the rumbling and labouring
the stomachs would have been more famine-pinched.
The stone faces on the outer walls stared blindly at the black night
the stool, entered on his reversionary interest in the straw his father
The strange thrill with which she heard him go back to that time,
the street by a high wall and a strong gate. The house belonged to
the street her feet had trodden, he lifted her again, and carried her up
the streets, as Defarge and the rest bore him along; remained immovable
the streets, at wide intervals, one clumsy lamp was slung by a rope and
the streets; but, the women were a sight to chill the boldest. From
the street under a glimmering lamp, and wrote with his pencil on a scrap
the street: unglazed, and closing up the middle in two pieces, like any
the strong-rooms underground, at Tellson's, with such of their valuable
The strong tide, so swift, so deep, and certain, was like a congenial
The Stryver clerk, who never assisted at these conferences, had gone
the Stryver head had been butted into its responsible waistcoat.
the sudden emergence from ambuscade, and sharp reining up across their
the suit of clothes, now inside out, now outside in, but on the whole
the summer--and no doubt he had put the fact in plea and proof, for his
The summer light struck into the corner brilliantly in the earlier part
the sun goes down!
the sun itself is--as the light called human life is--at its coming and
The sunset struck so brilliantly into the travelling carriage when it
The supplication touched him home. "I will always remember it, dear
The supposed Evremonde descends, and the seamstress is lifted out next
The sweet scents of the summer night rose all around him, and rose, as
the table.
the table. I had considered the question, and had resolved to accept
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
the--the--as you express it--the mind. The mind. It is the case of a
the thick mud, floundering and stumbling between whiles, as if they were
The third day came and went, the fourth, the fifth. Five days, six days,
The three customers pulled off their hats to Madame Defarge, with three
The three glided by, and went silently down.
The three had risen, and their heads were together when he came back to
The three went on, and Young Jerry went on, until the three stopped
the thunder-gusts that whirled into the corner, caught them up to the
the tide in his favour met with some unexplained check (not intelligible
"The time is short, Evremonde," said the Spy, in a warning voice.
the times for a time of action, and that they had shifted and struggled
the time to tamper with him no more. He had a wild, lost manner of
The time was to come, when that wine too would be spilled on the
The time went very slowly on, and Mr. Lorry's hope darkened, and his
the towelling; and he was in a very damaged condition, as he now pulled
the Tower?"
the tranquilly resounding corner, listening to the echoing footsteps of
The traveller fared slowly on his way, who fared towards Paris from
"The Treason case."
the Tribunal adjourned. The quick noise and movement of the court's
the Tribunal would be to put yourself out of Law. As to what is dearer
the truth."
the tumbrils. Here and there, the inmate has visitors to see the sight;
The turnkey fired the little pile, which blazed high and hot. Stooping
The turnkey stopped at a low door, put a key in a clashing lock, swung
the Two Cities that were blended in her life.
the two other passengers were close behind him, and about to follow. He
the two spoke for a little while.
The two stand in the fast-thinning throng of victims, but they speak as
the two trudged on together.
the unintelligible sound of his voice; and then Mr. Lorry saw him,
the unintelligible words meant.
The unseen force was drawing him fast to itself, now, and all the tides
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
the usual night hum of the city, with now and then an indescribable ring
"The usual noises," Mr. Cruncher replied; and looked surprised by the
the utmost brink of death, you would have cared to stop me there."
"The utmost good that I am capable of now, Miss Manette, I have come
the vacant darkness, and stood with that blank behind him, looking round
The valet come and gone, Monsieur the Marquis walked to and fro in his
The valet had put her away from the door, the carriage had broken into
The Vengeance.
The Vengeance and Jacques Three vied with each other in their fervent
The Vengeance, calling after her, for she had already turned into the
The Vengeance. There could not be fewer than five hundred people, and
The Vengeance, uttering terrific shrieks, and flinging her arms about
the very same intensity, to rend him to pieces and strew him over the
the village; all the village runs to look; they take him past the mill,
The village had its one poor street, with its poor brewery, poor
The virtuous servant, Roger Cly, swore his way through the case at a
the visages of the wildest savages in their most barbarous disguise.
the wall--there, risen to some eight or ten feet high--formed one side.
The watchful guard, with his right hand at the stock of his raised
the waves of other beer, and gin, and tea, and coffee, and what not,
The wayfarer smoked his pipe out, put it in his breast, slipped off his
the way. How do I know what injury you have done my horses. See! Give
The way out of court lay in that direction, and Jerry followed him, all
the wayside, slowly tending towards that point of the compass where
the way, to take me in, near the great cathedral door between the two
the way well, several dark and dirty streets--much dirtier than usual,
the way with his tribe. It missed its mark, and completely failed, as is
the welcome shade of the cool old hall, that Mr. Lorry observed a great
the whipping-post, another dear old institution, very humanising and
the whispering trees. Such ample leisure had the stone faces, now,
the whole, but implacable-looking, too; evidently a man of a strong
the whole of your bargain."
The wicket opened on a stone staircase, leading upward. When they had
the Wind and the Fire where to stop; not me!"
The wind is rushing after us, and the clouds are flying after us, and
the window, and I came to tell you. There is no one here to see. You may
the wine-shop again and taking counsel with its master in reference to
the wine-shop going straight to this one when they were left alone, Mr.
The wine-shop keeper accordingly rolled his eyes about, until they
the wine-shop. Their arrival had lighted a kind of fire in the breast
The wine-shop was a corner shop, better than most others in its
The wine was red wine, and had stained the ground of the narrow street
the winter light from cellars, moved away, to descend again; and a gloom
the wise Arabian stories, "then remain so! But, if thou wear this
The witness was quite sure.
"The wives and mothers we have been used to see, since we were as little
the woman as a third. It was a very muddy boot, and may introduce the
the women sat knitting, knitting. Darkness encompassed them. Another
the wondering of some other spirit within his, than his own.
the wonder was, that there was any village left unswallowed.
The wood-sawyer said he would be proud and flattered to attend the
The wood-sawyer, who held her in the respect, and himself in the
The wood-sawyer, who was a little man with a redundancy of gesture (he
the word.
"The word is not material, miss; either word will do."
The words were still in his hearing as just spoken--distinctly in
The word "wife" seemed to serve as a gloomy reminder to Defarge, to say
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
"The worst."
the worst was over."
the wound, the Doctor had passed out at the same gate, and had found him
The wound was a sword-thrust, received from twenty to twenty-four hours
the wretchedest head, had this crooked significance in it: "I know how
The wretched wife of the innocent man thus doomed to die, fell under
the wrists of those who carried them, with strips of linen and fragments
They all reverently bowed their heads and hearts. When she was again in
"They are here. Had you any conversation with the prisoner?"
"They are in great danger. They are in danger of denunciation by Madame
"They are," Mr. Lorry whispered the words, glancing fearfully round at
"They are not in danger?"
They began to descend; Monsieur Defarge going first with the lamp, Mr.
They both listened.
"They call me Defarge."
they call you?"
they could lay hold of, at the reception of Monseigneur. Unbelieving
they could tear. There was a change in the appearance of Saint Antoine;
"They did."
"They exchanged looks, but bent their heads to me as I bent mine to
They fished with a spade, at first. Presently the honoured parent
They found it surging and tossing, in quest of Defarge himself. Saint
They had already got the length of opening the hearse to take the coffin
"They had conferred together until the last moment, when it was
they had heard of me, and had been taught to pity me. When they passed
They had not made the round of their changed life many weeks, when her
they had reddened them below the snow with a deeper dye, they carried
They had said little, though they had been there a long time. When it
they had was secured to your mother and to you. There has been no new
They hanged at Tyburn, in those days, so the street outside Newgate had
they have a place in the shadowy conceptions of a gentle mind?
"They have come back!" and sat listening. But, there was no loud
they have gradually taken their road in life--we, ours--and we have held
they have no part in His mercies. And them and their descendants, to the
they have seen in theatres, and in pictures. Several close their eyes,
They joined hands, and the man sat down on the heap of stones.
they knew nothing about the passages), was in a manner contagious; more
They left her at the corner of the street, and Carton led the way to Mr.
they liked it or not. That, they never could lay their heads upon their
They looked at one another, and their hearts died within them.
They looked at one another, as he used his blue cap to wipe his face,
they looked at papers."
they might not have been so fortunate.
they moved.
the yoked ox may, its lean inhabitants slept soundly, and were fed and
"They only come from the heart, Jerry. They are worth no more than
"The younger brother impatiently rejoined, 'With twelve o'clock?'
The young gentleman uttered this exultant sound with mysterious
The young lady, to whom all eyes had been turned before, and were now
The young man had taken his hand gratefully; their hands were joined as
They paid for their wine, and left the place. The eyes of Monsieur
They passed through the intervening streets as quickly as they might,
they prolonged their usual orgies late into the night, and Carton was
They put him into a great chair they had among them, and which they had
They raised the unconscious figure, placed it on a litter they had
They rested on some straw in a loft until the middle of the night, and
They said of him, about the city that night, that it was the
they sat side by side, she leaning on his shoulder, and he resting
"They say, those boastful English, that it is the Refuge of many. You
They seemed to be numerous, for she shied at every shadow on the road.
They shook hands upon it, and Sydney turned away. Within a minute
They spoke low, as people watching and waiting mostly do; as people in a
"They tell me so."
they took him to the Doctor's door.
they too were to be a very few years hence, could have been shown to
They travelled in the night, halting an hour or two after daybreak, and
They turned into the wine-shop, which was closed (for it was midnight),
they waited with stomachs faint and empty, they beguiled the time by
They went into a dingy room lined with books and littered with papers,
They went out, leaving Lucie, and her husband, her father, and the
they went out under the plane-tree, and she carried the wine down for
They went up slowly and softly. The staircase was short, and they were
They were armed. I was not.
They were both silent.
they were dancing like five thousand demons. There was no other music
They were discussing this question, and were almost building up some
They were her husband's words, as he held her to his bosom.
They were not agreed, and wished to retire. My Lord (perhaps with George
they were not so decreed, he probably would not have one. That, Virtue,
they were opened and shut. Your bank-notes had a musty odour, as if they
they were ready with their votes if the President were content to
they were roughly hustled and maltreated. The transition to the sport of
they were, thou powerful enchanter, Time, and they shall be seen to be
"They will be rapid. Fear not!"
they would have used if they had been watching by a sick-bed in the
they would never approach. Not only would the echoes die away, as though
thieves snipped off diamond crosses from the necks of noble lords at
thing, however, to talk about one's own past, with the day breaking.
thing; otherwise, she remained very pretty and comely. Sometimes, at
things, and seemed to be ancient usage before they were many weeks old.
things. And these here would be mine, if it wos so, entreatin' of you
things, Darnay found himself confronted by the same man in authority,
things? I'll let you know, if you don't bring smelling-salts, cold
things in general were going rather wrong. As a promising way of setting
things in their places. Everybody was dressed for a Fancy Ball that
things is changed for the worse. Our not remote ancestors held the right
things moved so fast, and decree followed decree with that fierce
things on their last roadside, with an impassive stare; others, with
things ran their course.
thing. Stay there, if you please, a little moment."
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
things, the more it would be in danger of turning in the unhealthy
things to this. Strange that Creation, designed expressly for
things with ease, and was by some few sullen minds supposed to be rather
thing. The time will come, the time will not be long in coming, when new
think and speak, count One.
think, here, is how to live. That is the subject _we_ think of, and
thinking how little he had for supper and how much more he would eat if
thinking now, as I look into your kind strong face which gives me so
thinking of!"
think of the expression, than I should be annoyed by a man's opinion of
think we had best not speak to him just now, or at all disturb him.
think, will be."
"Think? You know I have been drinking."
thin, long and sallow face, aquiline nose but not straight, having a
thin, long, and sallow; nose aquiline, but not straight, having a
thinness of his face would have caused them to look large, under his yet
Third. But there was no harm in his way of saying this: it was said
third. They all dropped softly on the ground within the gate, and lay
third time. There was yet an upper staircase, of a steeper inclination
"Thirty-five," said the mender of roads, who looked sixty.
"Thirty-seven."
this."
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
this, and as he foresaw that even if it were all well with Charles, and
This answer had a happy effect upon the audience. Cries in exaltation
This being another question hard to answer, Mr. Jarvis Lorry withdrew to
this conference and order us all to our homes. Miss Lucie looks ill, Mr.
this conversation in general terms, and spoke of Sydney Carton as a
this desk, not even Tellson's should prevent my giving him a piece of my
This dialogue had been held in so very low a whisper, that not a word
This dialogue had taken place at Mr. Lorry's usual desk, with
this Double of coarse deportment, to be like a dream, Charles Darnay was
This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
This exordium, and Miss Pross's two hands in quite agonised entreaty
this fatal place. What prison is he in?"
This favoured the desperate resolution Charles Darnay had begun to make,
this figure. And when he lifted his eyes from it to the horizon and
***** This file should be named 98-8.txt or 98-8.zip *****
This had been the third morning in succession, on which there had been
this--ha, ha!--beats everything past, present, and to come."
this illustration of his rashness sooner, whether he would be so
"This is a strange chance that throws you and me together. This must
This is he; this helpless, inarticulately murmuring, wandering old man
This is she?"
This is she.
"This is something new to me, Mr. Lorry. You deliberately advise me not
"This is the man."
"This lasted twenty-six hours from the time when I first saw her. I had
this life together. Like the fabled rustic who raised the Devil with
this little earth that the learned tell us it is doubtful whether their
This mode of address was now prescribed by decree. It had been
this my cell in the Bastille, near the close of the tenth year of my
This new life of the Doctor's was an anxious life, no doubt; still, the
this note aloud, "to where his wife resides?"
this of mine!"
this old man, ugly and wicked, was, and overflowing into the adjacent
this paper of to-day, and he brings it home, and in the middle of the
this person to the post. His surname was Cruncher, and on the youthful
this piece of paper in the next pause, the counsel looked with great
this place; and every day on leaving it, she kissed the prison wall.
"This property and France are lost to me," said the nephew, sadly; "I
This short examination followed, for the court was quick with its work.
This third interchange of the Christian name was completed at the moment
This time, Mr. Lorry feigned to go out when he could extract no answer
this time to be, beneath the service of her eccentricity, one of those
This touched Young Jerry on a tender place; who adjured his mother to
this turn of the business, here requested Mr. Cruncher to moderate and
This universal watchfulness not only stopped him on the highway twenty
this very day?"
this was administered to the lion in the same manner, and was not
this was closed again. There was a hurry, too, in all his thoughts,
This was the Carmagnole. As it passed, leaving Lucie frightened and
This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
This wine-shop keeper was a bull-necked, martial-looking man of thirty,
This, with an angry explanatory wave of her right arm.
this witness like a crockery vessel, and shiver his part of the case to
this witness with no result, except that he had never seen the prisoner
thoroughfare, by a small, dim, crooked man.
those dark nights that hold their breath by the hour together, and then
those dead are my dead, and that summons to answer for those things
those feet had come to meet that water.
those iron bars, that I have now a secret to communicate. Ask him, is
those passages across the Channel--though what those affairs were, a
"Those rooms are all in disorder, there has been hurried packing, there
those stones. From being irresolute and purposeless, his feet became
those two of the large jaws, and those other two of the plain and the
those two passengers were, is there anything in his bulk and stature to
Those were drinking days, and most men drank hard. So very great is
Those who had been greedy with the staves of the cask, had acquired a
those who know, and who are so kind as to advise me, that I should go to
those who were cut to pieces. One prisoner there was, he said, who had
though he had business relations with me many years ago, and we are now
(though he said he was) to find that madame was to accompany monsieur
Though he said it with a grave smile of earnestness, and though he even
Though he said the last words, with a slip into his usual manner, there
"Though it's not important," repeated Carton, in the same mechanical
though not in shadow so remote but that you could see beyond it into a
though reddening a little angrily, "in another character, and not in a
though slowly.
thought as much at Court that sunny summer day.
thought, at the time, that you sympathised with the golden-haired doll,
thought, expressly to lame all living creatures that approached them,
thoughtfully and dejectedly with his hand, the fine mask looked at
thoughts had wandered away.
thoughts much higher, and draw comfort down.
thoughts, which was very difficult to master.
thought the best, on the Doctor's case.
thought (which I did not mean to utter here, however) has passed through
thousand seven hundred and seventy-five, lumbering up Shooter's Hill, as
threatening and dark, on both the mother and the child.
threatening and dark on the child, that her mother instinctively
threatening them all with instant death if any secret nook remained
three, and his finger quivered with the craving that was on him.
three at table, and Miss Pross made the third. He regretted that Charles
three-cornered hat to the oldest of men as they passed in to Tellson's,
three following days he remained perfectly well, and on the fourteenth
three-fourths of the notes in the whole gamut of Crime, were put to
three o'clock in the lightest-wheeled conveyance known to that period.
Three of the doors she opened swiftly, and looked in.
three or four times, before he put it clumsily into the lock, and turned
three passengers shut up in the narrow compass of one lumbering old mail
Three, rapturously. "Ah, my cherished!" cried The Vengeance; and
"Three voices. Ernest Defarge, wine-vendor of St. Antoine."
three who had rushed into another sect, which mended matters with a
three years and a half ago."
threshold looked for him, nobody asked for him, nobody wondered to see
threw at the carriage, and if that brigand were sufficiently near it, he
thrill struck him when she did so, and visibly passed over his frame; he
throat and choke him for half a guinea;" Mr. Cruncher dwelt upon this as
throat, as it used to be when he did that work; and even the old
throat, which descended nearly to the wearer's knees. When he stopped
throne of England; there were a king with a large jaw and a queen with
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
through about two hundred years.
Through gloomy vaults where the light of day had never shone, past
through her tears with great difficulty paid for her wine. As she did
through his glass in passing; "set himself in opposition to the last
through its barred windows had descried other faces within, bending over
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
through Temple Bar to read.
through the black mist that had fallen on him. They were overclouded
through the chinks in the wall.
through the crevice in the wall. Soon raising his head again, he struck
Through the dismal prison twilight, his new charge accompanied him by
through the illuminated villages with the people all awake! * * * * He
through the night; a correspondingly extra quantity of wine had preceded
through the streets.
through the village, and galloped up the stony steep, to the prison on
throwing her arms passionately round him, in a burst of grief. "Now that
throwing him another gold coin, "and spend it as you will. The horses
throwing it to him; "rip open that bed, and search the straw. Hold the
thrown away or wasted,' and that might trouble her."
thrust a pike as he passed out. Being besought to go to him and dress
thrust this man back, dragged this man forward, disarmed one to arm
thumb, that blazed and went out in a puff of smoke.
thump from the golden giant. These, however, were only the exceptions
thundering cannon; when the military drums should be beating to drown a
thus assisted the proceedings. The President rang his bell; but, The
Thus, had he come through the hours, to the day when the fifty-two heads
Thus it had come to pass, that Tellson's was the triumphant perfection
Thus Miss Pross, who had never struck a blow in her life.
Thus Miss Pross, with a shake of her head and a flash of her eyes
Thus, Monsieur Defarge, in a stern voice, to Mr. Lorry, as they began
Thus, Saint Antoine in this vinous feature of his, until midday. It was
Thus the evening wore away with the Cruncher family, until Young Jerry
Thus, the rustling of an Angel's wings got blended with the other
Thus, with beer-drinking, pipe-smoking, song-roaring, and infinite
Tickle, tickle; Pickle, pickle! And off _its_ head comes. All the
tide will serve pretty nicely at about two in the afternoon, sir. Bed,
tidings home, our father's heart burst; he never spoke one of the words
tidings Mr. Lorry gave her of her husband, and clasped the hand that
ties will be formed about you--ties that will bind you yet more tenderly
tigerish smear about the mouth; and one tall joker so besmirched, his
time."
time, after observing these operations. They again joined hands.
time also," said the nephew, gloomily, "that I believe our name to be
time, and, in this matter, as in all others, the common wretches were
time and since) that whenever her original proposition was questioned,
time and tide waited for no man, the rats were sleeping close together
time, as to French intelligence, a kind of High Exchange; and this
time before, as Mr. Lorry's cup-bearer; and while they sat under the
time before he lay down; but, when he did finally lay himself down, he
time here, sir. The George was in other hands at that time, sir."
time, his imprisonment had been associated in the minds of his daughter
time in our French House, and had been--oh! twenty years."
time. Little need to show that this detested family name had long been
timely aid! Help, help!" The officers looked towards the soldiers who
times."
time. Similarly, though with a subtle difference, a species of fervour
times in a stage, but retarded his progress twenty times in a day, by
times. Neither were they connected with fear: he was conscious of no
times. Not five or six? Perhaps. Of what profession? Gentleman. Ever
times, to take off his hat to scratch his head. Except on the crown,
time, the thin straight lines of the setting of the eyes, and the thin
time to come."
time to-day. She may ask for Mr. Jarvis Lorry, or she may only ask for a
time to ward off the impending veil, the cheapest garment she could
time, to work at a little forge. We will say that he was unexpectedly
time traversing the streets, was never known. As he stood staring at
time was not quite like any other, and nothing could make it so.
Time was, when a poet sat upon a stool in a public place, and mused in
time was young, and the evening and morning were the first day, other
time were a momentary fancy, or a dream, Mr. Lorry saw him shrink into
time--when I employed myself, in my captivity, in making shoes, to the
time when I found myself living in London with my dear daughter
time, whether he approved?
time with the tiger and the devil chained--not shown--yet always ready."
tissue of the life of her home.
Title: A Tale of Two Cities
to.
to a blending of all the three, with the second predominating. No sooner
to a distance, dropped one over him as they sow chance seeds? Whether or
to a garrison and dockyard, and there collected information; a witness
to a grated door where the gaoler awaited him, and many voices--among
to a hundred soon. Samson and his men complain sometimes, of being
to a man who knew nothing of my fate. I have altogether perished from
to a part of it; the rest was open, to the ridge of the tiled roof, and
to ask your name and condition?"
to assure himself that he had taken his place, and went through the
to avoid reviving old associations of France in his mind, he did not
to be agreeable, in a woman's society, than you do."
to be caught." Some of his King's Bench familiars, who were occasionally
to be caused by a sudden extraordinary rising and stiffening of all the
to be chased, and likewise gold to be beaten by some mysterious giant
to become so interested in the lady as to express a strong desire to
To be confronted with such pity, and such earnest youth and beauty, was
to be desired in the leader of the Saint Antoine women. One of her
to be massacred, or to be released, or (in a few cases) to be sent back
to be referred to your consideration for her father. Her father thanks
"To be registered, as doomed to destruction," returned Defarge.
to be relied upon, came quickest. Again: Tellson's was a munificent
to be represented as dead, and had a grand mock-funeral. But they have
to be taken, that could not be taken until he was actually summoned
to be, were not yet of the Teacher class, and no ruined nobility had
to be withered and worn. He, and his old canvas frock, and his loose
to bite, Monseigneur began to run away from a phenomenon so low and
to Blackheath. Reins and whip and coachman and guard, however, in
to both of us, in such different ways. Even in my father's time, we did
to confide their property to us fast enough. There is positively a mania
to consciousness on a field of slain, was rising from the pavement by
to control and steady his breathing shook the lips from which the colour
to crawl in. Through the rusted bars, tastes, rather than glimpses, were
to-day. Every question told."
to-day executed.--You?"
to death? Look at her, with her pretty pale face and her cold hands. Do
to dismount. He did so, and the two patriots, leading his tired horse,
"To distinguish the brothers, I will call them the elder and the
to divide her love for him or her help to him, and asked her "What is
to do for Charles's sake, is the hardest thing to do of all. You must
to do it.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate
to do when the time came; a desire gigantically disproportionate to the
to drink. I may read this?"
to dust he must return, being for the most part too much occupied in
to elicit loud remonstrance from an owl in the roof of the great pile
to end him. That is all I know."
to erase himself from existence, than to erase one letter of his name or
to feed scores of his tame birds on our wretched crops, and forbidden
to fifty years of age. For answer he repeated, without any change of
to follow as she had proposed.
to follow. In the meanwhile, be silent!"
to form some words, though no sound proceeded from them. By degrees, in
to get any, do he?"
together.
together, and to rest in her bosom.
together, as hazard had brought them together. At first, they were a
together as they have fallen out. It was the always-vain endeavour to
together at the fountain in the dark, another curious contagion of
together for a long time.
together, next, as enemies of the Republic, forasmuch as they had not
together unseen, a few of the people fell to dancing. Instantly, all the
together, walking up and down together, till her love and company have
together. When the wine was gone, and the places where it had been
to get to the end of. He had a strong idea that the coffin he had seen
to give him! Foulon who told my baby it might suck grass, when these
to go down into the village, roused him.
to go up to Soho and offer myself--_my_self, Stryver of the King's Bench
to grow to be blooming, beautiful, and happy, without the dark cloud
to have come to a crisis. And he was, therefore, as little surprised as
to have. He walked on the other side of it and protected it to the
to have hurriedly been brought there from some neighbouring smithy,
to have Miss Pross in with her work, several times during the day;
to have such a worthless fellow, and a fellow of such indifferent
to hear her spoken of in that tone of yours, Charles Darnay."
to her before he left town for the Long Vacation. After some mental
to her. But, before you go, will you, for a moment, steadily attend to
To her father himself, he wrote in the same strain; but, he told her
to him.
to him, and a station that was distasteful to him, and had left
to him (for the moment, or for good), by the story of the Tower, on
to him herself, and asked him what it was he had ordered.
to him, in an accidental touch of his wife's elbow as she knitted and
to him, once."
to himself; "I don't know you."
to him, since, on being pressed, he became worried. He abandoned that
to him the means of anticipating the sentence."
to him to have Charles Darnay brought before the lawless Court, and
to him to see the common people dispersed before his horses, and
to him who had tossed the paper over, "and then look well upon the
to his disadvantage. With this view, he urged his son to hold her in
to his head, and applied himself to the collection of a second meal;
to his lodgings, like a dissipated cat. At last, it began to get about,
to his mother, strongly deprecated any praying away of his personal
to his neck, and took off a blackened string with a scrap of folded rag
to his own private apartment of three rooms: his bed-chamber and two
toilette, Mr. Lorry presented himself at the breakfast-hour in his usual
toilettes of flaring Jezebels, the churches that are not my father's
toil up the hill at sunset, the setting sun, the descent, the mill, the
to incur considerable danger of receiving his dismissal from it, and
to its ears, as if it were laughing. It got into shadows on the road,
to itself, and he must go. Everything that arose before his mind drifted
to its knitting again.
to its possessor firmness and animosity, but to strike into others an
to it. There might be medical doctors at the present hour, a picking
to it. This is a secret service altogether. My credentials, entries,
to Jerry:
to lay him in his coffin."
told Lucie so.--What is that noise?" His hand was again upon the window.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
tolerated some person in that capacity, and time and tide had drifted
"to let in a little more light here. You can bear a little more?"
to lie on beds of roses; if he had had any such exalted expectation, he
TO LIFE."
to listen, and then the piercing shrieks would begin again, and she
to live up-stairs, or of a dim coach-trimming maker asserted to have
to look and listen, in the manner of the people at the Paris fountain.
to look for him, and who quietly nodded and sat down again.
to look in from the windows, knew Madame Defarge well, and acted as a
to me."
to me from you, to-morrow--"
to me, I recognise the tall man, and he recognises me. Ah, but he would
to mention beasts and vehicles of various sorts, was waiting to issue
to me--will you never understand that I am incorrigible?"
"To me, women!" cried madame his wife. "What! We can kill as well as
to Monseigneur, his devices for blowing the people up and exterminating
to-morrow!"
To Mr. Lorry, he commended them all, and explained his worldly affairs.
To Mr. Lorry, the Doctor communicated under an injunction of secrecy on
to Mr. Stryver, whom he warmly thanked. Mr. Stryver, a man of little
"Tom!" softly over the coach roof.
to-night, and be sure that his business is honest, Gabelle."
to-night, for we have something on our mind to-night."
"To-night," said the man, putting the pipe in his mouth.
"To-night?" said the mender of roads.
"To none. No, Miss Manette, to none. If you will hear me through a very
"To no one." Carton still had his hand in his breast.
too.
too horizontal and thin; still, in the effect of the face made, it was a
took a key out of his pocket, opened a locked cupboard, and brought
took her fancy. It had a quieter look than any other place of the same
took him to the door, and put her arm on his, in pointing out the road.
took it up, and there was a folded paper in it. "We should look
took me away. It carried me into great and unexpected peril; but it is
took out the key again, and held it in his hand. All this he did,
took the rose out of the handkerchief that was wound about her head.
took the shoe up, and resumed his work.
took up a Jacobin journal and feigned to pore over it puzzling out its
too," made his bow, informed his son, in passing, of his destination,
too much occupied then with fears for the brother who so little deserved
too much to bear; in an instant the barrier of dust and chaff that had
too, my little Vengeance; see you both! Listen! For other crimes as
too, rubbing its horrible shoulders against doors, and drawing them up
too strongly. Again, as if by agreement, they looked at one another with
toothache. He broke the awkward silence by saying:
too. When it was dark, and he sat before the coffee-room fire, awaiting
top and be damned to you, for I have had trouble enough to get you to
to pass out at that door, tell me it is madness and remain here. Change
to place and from group to group: a Missionary--there were many like
to plant the stool in the shadow of the Bar, Mr. Cruncher added to
to please her, unbent exceedingly; so the dinner was very pleasant, too.
top of the stairs, and, leaving seated there, returned.
to porterage and hardly that, without havin' his serious thoughts of
to protect at such times, to the end that she may know them--that she
To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
to put this man's head under the axe, and, as he himself said, nothing
to read it all. No more can I look into the depths of this unfathomable
to relate, have proved more important to the human race than any
to remain quite still. His hurried right hand parcelled out the herbs
to remain there until he wants you."
to return to him!"
"To return to poor Darnay," said Carton. "Don't tell Her of this
to ring the tocsin by-and-bye.
torment. When great masses of stone and timber fell, the face with the
torn out with pincers, and his body burned alive, because he had not
to roll that afternoon on the life-tide of the city to the boundless
torture; that he has never been able to bear the thought of putting it
to save their skins and bones; they had very little else to save, or
to say to any of them. I intend to take Jerry. Jerry has been my
to say would, but might) cause us real inconvenience. All very bad, very
to see her, or stand out of the way of the door and let me go to her!"
to see, I could have come provided. As it is, time must be lost. There
to see the loaf disappear under the efficacy of his wife's petitions. "I
to send to Canada and North America. This much, Jerry, with his head
to shape itself into a purpose, Mr. Barsad."
to show that the prisoner went down, with some fellow-plotter untracked,
"To Soho?" repeated Mr. Stryver, coldly. "Oh, to be sure! What am I
to speak; but, his spirit spoke with a dreadful emphasis.
to speak intelligibly; he thinks they are still together; he asks him,
to speak of in a whisper, across the water there; for instance, the
to strike the life out of him, that he turned away.
to take his, and he put it with some ceremony to his lips. He then
to that written appeal of a fellow-countryman which lies before you. I
to the abstraction that overclouded him fitfully, without any apparent
to the child of his old master, and put her hand to his lips. It was
to the citizen's letter, which had been taken from him at the Barrier,
to the corners of vile streets and courts, for a breath of air, Madame
"To the Devil with all that!" interrupted the other, rolling his eye
to the Doctor), which led to a few words of secret conference. That,
to the door."
"To the eye it is fair enough, here; but seen in its integrity,
To the eyes of Mr. Jeremiah Cruncher, sitting on his stool in
to the family, and was ridiculous. As often as I caught the younger
"To the first, then. He is of a studious habit, and unusually energetic;
to the Guillotine. In front of it, seated in chairs, as in a garden of
to the House afar off.
to their cells. That, presented by his conductors to this Tribunal, he
to them!--I doubt if they durst spare him after the demonstration in the
to them in a dull, subdued way, as if the noise out of which they had
to the Minister, stating the nature of the two cases to which I had been
to the oblivion of a prison for any length of time; if his wife had
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
to the robing-room. Another person, who had not joined the group, or
to the Tribunal--of whom some members were asleep and some awake, some
to thirst for it. Judiciously show a dog his natural prey, if you wish
to this butcherly mob, I wonder he is not at the head of them. But, no,
To this distressful emblem of a great distress that had long been
To this effect, in as few or fewer words, the Public Prosecutor.
To this lodging he at once removed Lucie and her child, and Miss Pross:
to turn. There is such an uneasiness in Paris, that we have actually a
touched him on the breast, as though his finger were the fine point of
touch his face, his arms being bound.
touching my hair, anything that recalls a beloved head that lay on your
"Touching those signals, little citizen," said Madame Defarge, sternly,
touching, yet so terrible in the tremendous wrong and suffering which
touch me, except to overwhelm me with embraces, or carry me in triumph.
"Touch then!"
"Touch then." It was the turn of the mender of roads to say it this
to us here (I speak in strict confidence; it is not business-like to
to us poor, will profit by my death; but I do not know how that can be,
to us! We know now, what a struggle you made of old. We know, now what
towards Charles Darnay, the same singular look that had been upon it
towards Saint Antoine.
Towards Soho, therefore, Mr. Stryver shouldered his way from the Temple,
towards the realisation of the name of mother--there was no such thing
towards the window where the keeper of the wine-shop stood looking at
to weigh the possibility of his father's having disappeared of his own
tower itself looked on like the ghost of a monstrous giant. They did not
towers?"
towers, and still Defarge of the wine-shop at his gun, grown doubly hot
towers, cannon, muskets, fire and smoke. Through the fire and through
towers with them, drinkers drew figures on the tables with spilt drops
tower, they were alone. Hemmed in here by the massive thickness of walls
"To whom do I address it?"
to write such words in?"
to you, and make no remark upon them."
to you, and that my name, and faults, and miseries were gently carried
to you, I am shaken, Mr. Lorry, by Doctor Manette's not having had the
to you, is, that you will believe this of me."
to your face to do you good--that you are a devilish ill-conditioned
to your own father, you young Rip? This boy is a getting too many for
to you than life, nothing can be so dear to a good citizen as the
trace him; if he had an enemy in some compatriot who could exercise a
traces, almost felt, and almost looked, like accomplices in a horrible
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
tradesman, am able to provide a little beer, none of your declaring
traffic and traffickers, was easy enough, egress, even for the homeliest
training of the young gentlemen, by directing them to beware of the
traitor."
traitor, an unblushing trafficker in blood, and one of the greatest
traitorous ways to thrive (which happily it never was), the real
tranquilly to his reward.
transformation had come over him in a few seconds. He had no good-humour
transitory gladness to him; many a dreary daybreak revealed his solitary
travelled certain leagues with this good mender of roads, called
travelled thus far on his last way. Being allowed to purchase the means
travellers!" "See here then, Monsieur the Officer," said Defarge,
traveller upon.
treachery, and cruelty, to the whole countenance. Examined with
tread, as being in expectation of a drawbridge; and when there was
"Treason!"
trees, and poured its radiance over the hill. In the glow, the water
trees. The hard uneven pavement is under us, the soft deep mud is on
tremble so. I have saved him."
trembling with eagerness to lay the spectral face upon her warm young
trial, or even accusation, in your native country, Doctor Manette?"
Tribunal to-day. You are again the prisoner of the Republic."
Tribunal, will not save him."
tricks, On him our hopes we fix, God save the King!"
(tricoloured letters were the favourite), Republic One and Indivisible.
tried speaking to him; but, he was so confused, and so very slow to
tried to secure it in his breast; but he still looked at her, and
trodden-down sentiment, and passionate revenge.
troubled, and his hand was not trustworthy. The spy would have been no
troubled; "in general, I say nothing against it. But this Doctor has
troubled it.
troubles, in his own cook's dress, and got across the borders. A
trouble, which they had picked up in their interrupted saunter. Some of
trouble you, Madame Defarge wishes to see those whom she has the power
trudged away, East, West, North, and South, along the night-enshrouded
True, but not an English woman.
truest to them in the season of trial, as all the quietly loyal and good
"Truly, a decree for selling the property of emigrants."
"Truly, madame, I think so. For the moment."
"Truly yes, madame."
"Truly, you did well," said the Marquis, felicitously sensible that such
trusted, respected, and looked up to?"
trusting it out of my own hands, delivered it myself that day.
trust the case wholly to him, this little citizen here. For, I am not a
trust to him as the strong. The preceding relative positions of himself
truth?"
truth as I shall answer for these my last recorded words, whether they
Truth. There, Monseigneur turned, and came back again, and so in due
truth through the best part of a hundred years.
trying to do something to stay bloodshed, and assert the claims of mercy
trying to reconcile some doubts in his mind.
"Try them again. The hours between this and to-morrow afternoon are few
"Tst! Joe!" cried the coachman in a warning voice, looking down from his
tumbrils carry the day's wine to La Guillotine. All the devouring and
tumbrils now jolted heavily, filled with Condemned. Lovely girls; bright
turned again, stood up where she had sat. Her father rose with her, and
turned and rode away without entering the city.
turned her head as the carriage came up to her, rose quickly, and
turned out of their road to avoid any very excited group of talkers. It
turned them back, or sent them on, or stopped them and laid them in
"turned this way, must have trod on these stones often. Let me follow in
turned to walk again.
turning his head towards the door of the room from which he had issued,
turning to her friend The Vengeance:
Turn me in some other direction before I go."
turn or two in the already darkening street, and traced the thought
turns and all together, until the very tide of the river on the bank of
turn the leaves of this dear book that I loved, and vainly hope in time
"Tut! Nonsense, sir!--And, my dear Charles," said Mr. Lorry, glancing at
tutor, whose attainments made the student's way unusually pleasant and
"Tut, tut!" said Mr. Lorry; "what is this despondency in the brave
twelve, and said, 'Hush!' For an instant, and no more, she would pause
Twelve gone for ever.
twelve. Hush!'
twenty, and a gentleman who was evidently her father; a man of a very
twenty-second of the month) in the year 1757, I was walking on a retired
Twenty-Three.
"Twenty years back, yes; at this time of my life, no. For, as I draw
"Twice, he put his hand to the wound in his breast, and with his
Twice more in all; but, the last spell of work was feeble and fitful.
Twice more in the darkness the bell at the great gate sounded, and the
twice or thrice upon the door--evidently with no other object than to
twice, without looking again: even though the opportunity of observation
twilight. Your money came out of, or went into, wormy old wooden
twist itself into the same tortured forms. Sow the same seed of
"Two."
two companions ascended higher and higher.
two dints in the nose became obscured: anon struggled out of the smoke
two fervent letters; one was to Lucie, explaining the strong obligation
"Two French gentlemen."
two letters with a trusty porter, to be delivered half an hour before
two marks. "Do me the favour to recall that I told you so, long ago."
two minutes, and as there are Life and Death in the world you must not
two or three hurried lines in his own hand, represented to have been
Two other passengers, besides the one, were plodding up the hill by the
two promises and wows wot it is my wishes fur to record in this here
Two score and twelve were told off. From the farmer-general of seventy,
Two things at once impressed themselves on Mr. Lorry, as important above
Two Thousand, Jacques Five-and-Twenty Thousand; in the name of all
two to four, always signalling, sometimes with the little one, sometimes
"Two to-night, I think. I have been dining with the day's client; or
tyrants and oppressors, I have this race a long time on my register,
ubiquitous Jacques in his time. Then, there were gardens, courtyards,
"Ugh!" cried Mr. Lorry, rather relenting, nevertheless, "I am shocked at
ultimate safety and deliverance, he became so far exalted by the change,
unaccountable.
unacquainted with his story as if they had seen the shadow of the actual
Unanimously voted. At heart and by descent an Aristocrat, an enemy
unavenged.
unceasingly, work silently, and no one heard them as they went about
uncertain condition. Some registers were lying open on a desk, and an
uncertain what to do," said Miss Pross to herself; "and you shall not
unconscious inconsistency, "that the worth of _your_ prayers may be?
unconsciously imitated by the spectators. Her forehead was painfully
unconscious of him, and so particularly determined not to perceive that
uncorrupted, seemed to escape, and all spoilt and sickly vapours seemed
under a bank overhanging the road. Upon the top of the bank was a low
under an escort."
under any circumstances reconcile it to his station to play that Ace
"Under a threat?"
under Heaven. Altogether, the Old Bailey, at that date, was a choice
under her arm, and clapped her hands as at a play.
understand him. You may tell him so, with my compliments. You may also
understanding of it, nor tact for it. Find out somebody. Find out some
understand it to be a nice question. And yet I think--" And there he
understand me, sir," said Mr. Lorry, quickly flushing again, "I
understand of what you have so impressively said; and at all events
understand that, even if Miss Manette held me at this moment in her
understand your nonsensical language; but I would give all I have,
under such strong emotion, and her face expressed such deep anxiety,
undertakers, and wot with parish clerks, and wot with sextons, and wot
under the clouds were a sum.
under the displeasure of the Republic.
Under the over-swinging lamps--swinging ever brighter in the better
under the plane-tree together. Never did the moon rise with a milder
under the sky, and by the daylight, it is a crumbling tower of waste,
under the southern wintry sun. Still, the Doctor walked among the
undertook to keep the register in her memory alone, she would not lose
undeserved promotion in it! Better for him that his beard had never
undeserving. And yet I have had the weakness, and have still the
undisclosed, Defarge laid his strong hand on the breast of one of
undoubtedly bore to the prisoner (which his momentary earnestness,
Undoubtedly it was.
uneasiness respecting the Bank, which a great change would naturally
uneasy; I shall reappear in the morning. You go to the Court to-morrow?"
Unencumbered with luggage, they would soon overtake the coach, and,
unexpectedly, I have at length done all that I can do here. I hoped to
unforeseen by its subject."
unfortunate King of France had been upon his throne in all his glory;
unhappy souls in prison and the shadow of death--were almost the only
unimpeachable.
unimpeachable patriot appeared in the witness-box.
unintelligible signs.
uninvited, and would sit among them through the evening, as he had once
united; he had come out with great obsequiousness to assist at this
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.
unnatural silence of a whole city, the executioner showed the people the
unnecessary, for nothing could be flatter than its shining surface was
unprepared for. He gave him his hand, and Carton gently pressed it.
unprosperous as to awaken a strong suspicion in his breast that Mrs.
unquestionably seen, for a single moment, the face that I once knew so
unreality of his long unreal ride, was, their all at once rising to
unreal, not the least was the seeming rarity of sleep. After long and
unruly charger, whip-corrected, snorting and pawing the earth under the
Unseen by the spy, Mr. Cruncher stood at his side, and touched him on
unselfish creatures--found only among women--who will, for pure love and
"Unsettled weather, a long journey, uncertain means of travelling, a
unspeakable astonishment at Jerry.
unsteady fingers of one of his hands strayed to his lips as he looked at
until after to-morrow; probably not until two or three days afterwards;
until he was clear of the Old Bailey; for, the crowd came pouring out
until just now, and had only left her for a few minutes, to come and
until the time had gone by, and the nobility were trooping from
until the touch of pity could make no mark on them.
until they came into a large, low, vaulted chamber, crowded with
until they left off, of their own will.
unusual concourse pouring down Fleet-street westward, attracted his
unusually emphatic horse, denying that the coach could be got up the
up again: not with any interest or curiosity, but with a dull mechanical
up and down, complacently admiring, but never interfering; in which
up and down, walking up and down, in his room. Ladybird has learnt to
up at its bars, and spoke in whispers. She could never deliver me; I
up carefully with mine and your own. Now, observe! I never doubted until
Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
up forty feet above the fountain, they changed again, and bore a cruel
up in his hurried wonder as he wrote, the hand stopped, closing upon
up long rows of miscellaneous criminals; now, hanging a housebreaker on
up men by those ropes and pulleys, to flare upon the darkness of their
upon an errand, and then he was represented by his son: a grisly urchin
upon anything in Fleet-street during the busy hours of the day, and
upon a wall with his finger dipped in muddy wine-lees--BLOOD.
upon fourscore when there are so many people there much better worth
upon her, "good day. The chamber, furnished bachelor-fashion, that you
upon her shoulder.
upon him, and with that last expression looking as if it were carved or
upon him. Crowds of the wicked and the wretched had been reflected in
upon him more and more, "I state the case, Citizen Defarge?"
upon himself to impart that secret brooding to any one, when it is on
upon his breast. In the moonlight which is always sad, as the light of
upon his neck, and with her cruel knife--long ready--hewed off his head.
upon ledges, stood upon next to nothing, to see every inch of him.
upon Monseigneur. In the outermost room were half a dozen exceptional
"Upon my life," said Carton, smiling, "I find that easier to comprehend
"Upon my soul, I am not sure that it was not yours. You were always
upon my telling Mrs. Cruncher as much as I may be able to remember and
upon the dear old year one thousand seven hundred and seventy-five.
upon the governor who had defended the Bastille and shot the people.
upon the hearth, and watched it as it dropped. It being all spent, he
upon the trees. Though the earth was cold and wet, the sky was clear,
upon those rags; men devilishly set off with spoils of women's lace
Upon which, every man looked at his neighbour, and then all cast down
upon you of living in uncertainty whether your father soon wore his
upright, upon its narrow end, always on the point of overtaking him
up, swooped screaming off. No fight could have been half so terrible
Up the broad flight of shallow steps, Monsieur the Marquis, flambeau
up their guineas where a honest tradesman don't pick up his
up together singing a Liberty song. Happily, however, there was sleep in
up to her husband, she would come to herself to find him looking at her,
us; but, so far, we are pursued by nothing else.
us, do not speak, do not move!"
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
useless I am, as you have brought me! If I had known what I was coming
useless lumber.
us; he was stopped at the barrier, and sent to prison."
us! He was willing enough, but my sister was good and virtuous, and
using her toothpick with profound composure, coughed another grain of
using that important part of himself as a sort of fairy cloak that would
us! Look out, look out, and see if we are pursued.
us say no more about it."
usual?"
usually performed a good two hours earlier.
usual order of things was reversed, and that the felons were trying the
usual preoccupied air. There were a few customers, drinking or not
usual watch was set, and Mr. Cruncher and his son went home to tea.
usual way, and came to breakfast.
utmost. Surely, ghosts all. Surely, the long unreal ride some progress
utterance to his, and they were prophetic, they would have been these:
vague but heavy fear was upon her.
vague suspicion and black malice, it was so impossible to forget that
valet.
valet to his own bedroom.
"Vapour?"
vapouring, combined with the extravagant plots of Monseigneur for the
variety of objects in movement were every day presented. Who could sit
vast deal of travelling, sir, in Tellson and Company's House."
vaunting our superiority to secrecy and spies are of very modern
Vengeance and retribution require a long time; it is the rule."
Vengeance, as custodian of the drum, could have wakened him up and had
Vengeance, warming with encouragement, shrieked, "I defy that bell!"
vermin-haunted cells was long and cold. Next day, fifteen prisoners were
vermin kind. He was quite incapable of any compassionate feeling about
vermin were not to ruffle him, "to see a thief accompanying my carriage,
very curious case in which I am deeply interested; that is to say, it is
very curious to me; perhaps, to your better information it may be less
very energetic man indeed, with great firmness of purpose, strength
very first action fought between the British troops and the Americans.
very gently raised her, and the hands that had not ceased to clasp
"Very good. Then I give it, and you have repeated it correctly."
Very ill at ease with himself, and with Stryver and most other men,
"Very interesting remembrances!" said the spy. "I have known Doctor
very little resemblance in it to the noise conventionally assigned to
"Very little to-night, but all he knows. There is another spy
very little way, and allowed Mr. Jerry Cruncher to squeeze himself into
"Very much." He said it with an involuntary shudder.
very much put out."
Very orderly and methodical he looked, with a hand on each knee, and a
"Very pressing. To Monsieur heretofore the Marquis St. Evremonde, of
very simple; is he not a little dangerous?"
very slight one, forced upon the prisoner in coaches, inns, and packets?
Very strange to see what a struggle there was within him!
very thoughtful!" Mr. Lorry grasped his hand in return, and neither of
"Very well. Find the door where the witnesses go in, and show the
"Very willingly," said the mender of roads. Whom Defarge escorted to the
vice and virtue, of every responsible creature on it.
victims, he was a man apart. In the exercise of his skill, the
VI. Hundreds of People
VII. A Knock at the Door
VIII. A Hand at Cards
VIII. Monseigneur in the Country
VII. Monseigneur in Town
village."
village below, where it is already dark, when I raise my eyes, and see
village, 'bring him fast to his tomb!' and they bring him faster. I
village--had a faint and bare existence there, as its people had--that
village, I have been seized, with great violence and indignity, and
village sleeps; all the village dreams of that unhappy one, within the
village was illuminating. The mender of roads, and the two hundred and
Villain Foulon taken, my sister! Old Foulon taken, my mother! Miscreant
villainy were practised, and where dire diseases were bred, that came
vinegar, as a precaution against gaol air and gaol fever.
violently drowned by night, and prisoners were shot in lines and squares
violently on end, if it had been that moment dressed by the Cow with the
violent stress in one direction, and it needs a counterweight."
visage of the Lord Chief Justice in the Court of King's Bench, the
visible by some light of its own, as though it were growing luminous.
visitor dubiously.
visitors. Very little of these trades, or of a lonely lodger rumoured
visitor watched her fingers for a few moments, and took the opportunity
VI. The Shoemaker
VI. Triumph
vivacious Bacchanalian flame leaped out of the pressed grape of Monsieur
vivacity. "Pray, Doctor Manette," said Mr. Darnay, as they sat under the
vividly; perhaps he had not seen much in his life.
voice called to the driver to stop.
voice. "Forgive me if I notice that you are affected. I could not see my
voice heard:
voice replied, "Yes--I am working." This time, a pair of haggard eyes
voices of vengeance, and faces hardened in the furnaces of suffering
voice, "withdraws; all the village whispers by the fountain; all the
voluble and loud, would have been as so much Hebrew or Chaldean to Miss
Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
voyage with me."
V. The Jackal
V. The Wine-shop
V. The Wood-Sawyer
wailing and breadless. Then, the miserable bakers' shops were beset by
wailing children.
waist. "It is under my arm," said Miss Pross, in smothered tones, "you
waited on his wife. As one who pretended to do nothing but plunder and
waited out the day, seven days a week.
waiting for another person. The prisoner's counsel was cross-examining
waiting for the completion of its load, had been planned out last night,
waiting on the saintly presence--nobles of great power all of them;
waiting their dismissal from the desolate shore, all turning on him eyes
wake him--"ten o'clock, sir."
wake me?"
waking, drunkenness and sobriety, were standing and lying about. The
walked in her girlhood, bare-foot and bare-legged, on the brown
walked up and down through life.
Walking between her father and Mr. Darnay, Lucie Manette passed into
"Walking here again, citizeness?"
Walking regularly to and fro with his arms folded on his breast, a very
walking, through the rest of yesterday and through last night. And here
walking to and fro in restless anxiety. He said he had been with Lucie
wall.
walls, and doorways, as his eyes were close to one another, held his
walls, before going out, a wandering fancy wandered through the mind of
walls, in among the eight great towers surrendered!
wall than a head of hair, that the best of players at leap-frog might
wall the three turned out of the road, and up a blind lane, of which
want?"
want; so many die of want; so many more will die of want."
want to speak to me. Pay for your wine, and come out. Who's this man?"
warbled, that he would do best to answer, but always with brevity.
warmed and softened to this pitiable girl.
warned I should) this comrade. With him, I came on, now riding and now
warped and perverted all things good by nature were become. The maidenly
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
was about to take his chocolate. Monseigneur could swallow a great many
was a frill of paper, on which was scrawled:
was again alone in his room of the previous night, considering what to
was a general set of the current of talkers past Mr. Lorry's desk. He
was all opposed to her; she stood in dread of him, and in dread of her
was an English four-poster, they shouldn't loose a splinter of me. No,
was angry.
was a raw evening, and the misty river, blurred to the eye with blazing
was a son who would never know his father's story; who might even live
was a son who would some day avenge his father. (There was a time in my
was a species of loft over a stable. There was a low plastered ceiling
was as well known to himself as it could be to any new authority in
was as white as the tops of the waves that broke upon the neighbouring
was a true Briton, and hoped there were many like him.
was a true feeling and respect both in his tone and in his touch,
was a young 'un and a straight made 'un."
was--before the slow years of the North Tower--ages ago. What is your
was beyond fear and beyond reproach, to ferret out the nature of the
was black again.
was called to identify him as having been at the precise time required,
was dead. Her hope had been, she said in great distress, to show her,
was difficult, on first coming in, to see anything; and long habit
was done, two fine dints were pointed out in the sculptured nose, which
was ever spoken between me and those brothers.
was exalted to that height of so many feet; in other words, the present
was extensive standing--for carriages--where, indeed, some carriages
was famous, too, for the pillory, a wise old institution, that inflicted
was fast asleep directly.
was fired, out of the barrels of a hundred thousand muskets.
was forged, and the one delicate thing to be done for the old Sydney
was given to some scores of inoffensive persons who had never been near
was growing dreadfully skilful, and that he had never been so intent on
was heard as she moved it at her feet behind the counter.
"Was He a spy?" asked Mr. Cruncher.
Was he not an emigrant then? What did he call himself?
Washington might gain almost as great a name in history as George the
Washington on his mind) showed some surprise that they were not agreed,
was, however; and the last drop of blood having been extracted from the
was, "I don't know her. I don't understand."
was in her room, and I was in her prayers. Her life was active,
was in the tumbril on his way to the Guillotine.
was in vain that I asked her for her family name. She faintly shook her
"Was it dreaded by him?" Mr. Lorry ventured to ask.
was, it was the unknown future, and in its obscurity there was ignorant
was Jerry Cruncher himself, who modestly concealed his spiky head from
was little roughness in the sport, and much playfulness. There was a
was lying back on his sofa, winking at his ceiling.
was made for them. The text of his order (altered from the original
was making the whole night behind him dreadful, he darted out into the
was more than he could do himself.) "John Solomon, or Solomon John? She
was much too much the way of native British orthodoxy, to talk of this
was my sister, that husband was my sister's husband, that unborn child
was naturally so peculiar in appearance as not to show disfigurement
was never to leave off. From the Palace of the Tuileries, through
was no difference in him. Another pause of oblivion, and he awoke in the
was no disgrace in the fate he must meet, and that numbers went the same
was no hope of return until he should have been declared a good citizen
was no one watching her. In one of those pauses she recoiled and cried
was not a Sheep of the Prisons."
was not a sort that elevated humanity. Had he stood in peril of a less
was not there; was more than half disposed to object to the loving
was not there, which was a relief to Lucie, and left her quite alone.
was not to speak until required, or to offer an opinion until invited.
was not visible. He was not missed; for, nobody who crossed the
was not yet proof against slight surprises (if he ever would be), and
was offered for sale. Hunger rattled its dry bones among the roasting
was on him. He always resolutely answered: "Nothing can happen to him
was only One.
was ordered to bed, and his mother, laid under similar injunctions,
was, over the water."
was put to Death; the unlawful opener of a letter was put to Death; the
was reached. The keeper of the wine-shop, always going a little in
was ready at the street door to receive them.
was removed to the interior of the prison again; but, that he, the
was reposed in your pure and innocent breast, and that it lies there
was running after him; and, pictured as hopping on behind him, bolt
was seized; not so with the hoarse tones of the men and women in Saint
was so great that she could hardly speak, or stand, or move, or live:
was so unwholesomely bloated, both in face and person, as to look like
was so well known to the public, and the inquiries made there were in
was spread.
was strong, and it was very, very hard, to loosen; by gradual efforts
wasted--"
wasted air which clouded the naturally handsome features, and having
"--wasted, my child--should not be wasted, struck aside from the
Waste forces within him, and a desert all around, this man stood still
waste, was music to her. Nor, how there were echoes all about her, sweet
was than she. He made her another bow.
was the acquittal pronounced, than tears were shed as freely as blood
was the elder who replied, 'Since about this hour last night.'
was the first cause of the malady. Some intense associations of a most
was the first stranger to whom little Lucie held out her chubby arms,
was their child, that brother was my brother, that father was my father,
was then so far in advance of me that two gentlemen had time to open the
was the old church of Saint Pancras, far off in the fields. It got there
was the sigh, Hunger. It was prevalent everywhere. Hunger was pushed out
was the sight; the immortal creature that was to be so butchered
was the true face of the buried person, the shadows of the night did
was to deliver it to greater authorities within, the shadows of the
was, to let everything go on in its own way; of particular public
was to plump a noun-substantive at the head of a shopkeeper without any
was touched besides. As they walked on in silence, he could not but see
was troubled in my mind with what I had heard and seen.
was upon Monsieur the Marquis by that time; and the shadow was exchanged
was--without it."
was yet light enough to work and read, she had neither engaged herself
watches), poured the chocolate out. It was impossible for Monseigneur to
watchfulness had completely isolated him.
watchfulness so encompassed him, that if he had been taken in a net,
watching one stream--saving that Jerry had no expectation of their ever
watching them in such quiet as the night knew.
watchman in his box at the door of Tellson's Bank, by Temple Bar, who
water."
water, and asked for another glass of cognac. Madame Defarge poured it
water, and vinegar, quick, I will."
water as it splashed the river-walls of the Island of Paris, where the
waterfalls than staircases, Defarge, the turnkey, and Jacques Three,
water, wherein, as momentary lights glanced into it, I have had glimpses
water! Who can gossip of an evening, under that shadow! Under it, have
waves of an unwholesome sea might do. It was dense enough to shut out
waves of four months had rolled over the trial for treason, and carried
way along the narrow streets and crossed the river by the bridge of the
way, and she measured Madame Defarge with her eyes, every inch.
way Defarge spoke, Mr. Lorry put on his hat and they went down into the
way, "I'll have this out with you. You've been at Doctor Manette's house
way, of patriot patrols on the watch on all the roads.
way of shouldering himself (morally and physically) into companies and
way out.
way over the well-worn Turkey carpet, supposed Miss Manette to be, for
way quietly, the messenger found out the door he sought, and handed in
ways. Here is the letter. Go along."
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
way--"though it's not important--No, it's not important. No. Yet I know
way through stone walls, and so can others. Now, what do you want with
way to affect to make light of anything that was a great anxiety
way to state promotion, and, therefore, loud on the theme: broaching
way--to wit, for ever, from the eyes of the bodies into which its lead
way. You will be sure to hear when the jury come in. Don't be a moment
weakened them; he was an old man now, overborne with anxiety of late,
weakness of the position. There is no help for it."
weakness, to wish you to know with what a sudden mastery you kindled me,
weak structure of hope on his prolonged absence, when they heard him on
"We all know you, Citizen Doctor," said the other three.
weapons, blazing torches, smoking waggonloads of wet straw, hard work
weapon that distracted ingenuity could discover or devise. People who
weapon that was thrown up from the depths below, no matter how far off.
wear, and draw on these of mine."
wear, and had bestowed her as a prize upon a very rich Farmer-General,
"We are alone at the top of a high house in a solitary courtyard, we are
"We are already friends, I hope."
we are in our happiness, and how weak he is in his misery!"
"We are thoughtful to-night!" said Darnay, drawing his arm about her.
wearied out by lonely wandering in a wilderness, would have remembered
weather-beaten sill of the great window of the bed-chamber of Monsieur
weaving the service of her happy influence through the tissue of all
weep for it, weep for it!"
we had everything before us,
we had nothing before us,
we have a little pride left, sometimes. She--have you seen her, Doctor?'
"'We have been to your residence,' said the first, 'and not being
"We have borne this a long time," said Madame Defarge, turning her eyes
"_We_ have done wrong?" repeated the Marquis, with an inquiring smile,
"We have new laws, Evremonde, and new offences, since you were here." He
"We have seen nothing else," returned The Vengeance.
"We have so asserted our station, both in the old time and in the modern
weight that drags it down, so that the miserable people who cannot leave
well."
"Well?"
Well?"
"Well! About two leagues beyond the summit of that hill above the
"Well! And hallo you!" said Jerry, more hoarsely than before.
well as if I wrote. Make the best of your way. Good night."
well as out of wide division; in the former case, they are subtle and
"Well! At any rate you know me as a dissolute dog, who has never done
"Well! He is quiet. Can I restore him to you?"
well. Hush! Let us draw further back. Hush!"
"Well, I don't know all I mean, for I can't call to mind what your name
"Well! I'll say gallantry. My meaning is that I am a man," said Stryver,
"Well! I--Were you going there now?" asked Mr. Lorry.
well kept, and Lucie was unconscious and happy; but he could not fail to
well-known citizen, his own attached friend, the father of his wife. One
"Well, my sweet," said Miss Pross, nodding her head emphatically, "the
"Well!" observed Mr. Lorry, beamingly adjusting his little wig, "that
well of the Republic, and possesses its confidence. But my husband has
well-remembered expression on the forehead, and then laid the bright
"Well!" said Defarge, with a half complaining and half apologetic shrug.
"Well!" said his friend Stryver, "you take it more easily than I fancied
"Well!" said Stryver, slapping the desk with his contentious hand,
"Well!" said that good-natured emissary, after a full half-hour of
"Well, sir!" cried Mr. Lorry, thoroughly heated by his indifference,
"Well! Some whisper this, some whisper that; they speak of nothing else;
Well, that 'ud be imposing, too, on Tellson's. For you cannot sarse the
"Well, then; don't meditate nothing. You might as well flop as meditate.
"Well then, I'll tell you," said Stryver, coming slowly into a sitting
"Well then! Pledge me to the pretty witness," said Stryver, holding up
"Well, then," said Defarge, as if a thought were wrung out of his
well, to find his house without asking any question. Having ascertained
well to get all the preliminaries done with, and they could then arrange
"Well! To the best of my understanding, and bad's the best, you'll tell
"Well! Truly it is against rule. But he is denounced--and gravely--by
"Well, well," reasoned Defarge, "but one must stop somewhere. After all,
"Well, well," said the old clerk; "we all have our various ways of
"Well, well! That's good comfort. I am thankful!" said Mr. Lorry.
went away caressing him. I never saw her more.
went in together--that no vestige of colour was to be seen in his face.
went, knitting, out of the lamplight, through the courtyard. She quickly
went last, and closed the door.
went on.
went out, and the prisoner was brought in, and put to the bar.
went out in quest of such a lodging, and found a suitable one, high up
went together; at other times she was alone; but, she never missed a
were afraid of being found out in something, singly, if they kept too
were, all, grim illustrations of Want. The butcher and the porkman
"We really have not heads enough; it would be a pity, I think."
were alone, Mr. Lorry asked him what he had done?
were), and being a responsible jury (as _they_ knew they were), must
were angry at being spoken to--and bent over his work again.
were another enemy strangled.
were appointed; before their blood ran into the blood spilled yesterday,
were a rotten red. It was taken to pieces, like a toy-puzzle for a young
were as silent, however, as the men.
were brought in after him, one man stopped in passing, to embrace him,
were condemned, and the trials of the whole occupied an hour and a half.
were decreed in Britain, as in ancient Greece and Rome, to public
were engaged in the preparation of some games of forfeits and a little
were fast decomposing into rags again. Your plate was stowed away among
were gloomily reflected on every leaf; as if _they_ were buried, in deep
were in the echoes of his feet, and were in the air. Perfectly calm
were made what the name could have been. At length, it was suggested
were not."
were not wanting; the tax for the state, the tax for the church, the tax
were purchased every evening, in small quantities and at various small
were put in your cradle."
were said, for the popular revulsion had even travelled that length
were spoken, so as to place me between themselves and the carriage door.
were still fishing perseveringly, when he peeped in at the gate for
were the finger of Fate.
"Were there any other passengers in the mail?"
were there. They drew back from the window, and the Doctor looked for
were to fall. And now, while he was composed, and hoped that he could
were to the full as interested in the place, however, as if they could
were undistinguishable from one another; the figure on the Cross might
were very shy of being confidential on a short notice, for anybody on
were yet unknown. The remorseless sea of turbulently swaying shapes,
"Were you newly released on the occasion in question?"
"Were you travelling alone, Mr. Lorry, or with any companion?"
"We shall have helped it," returned madame, with her extended hand in
"We shall not be separated long. I feel that this will break my heart
"We shall not see the triumph."
Westminster Hall; to-day, taking the life of an atrocious murderer,
westward with the sun, the other ever tending eastward from the sun,
wet, among impoverished fields that had yielded no fruits of the earth
we were all going direct the other way--
we were all going direct to Heaven,
"'We were so robbed by that man who stands there, as all we common dogs
"We will set him above their mercies very soon. I left him climbing to
"What an admirable woman; what an adorable woman!" exclaimed Jacques
"What a night it has been! Almost a night, Jerry," said Mr. Lorry, "to
What did he live upon? His property. Where was his property? He didn't
"What did you look at, so fixedly?"
"What did you make of it, Tom?"
"What did you say?"
"What do I know!" said the postmaster, shrugging his shoulders; "there
"What do you make, madame?"
"What do you mean?"
"What do you mean? Ten o'clock at night?"
"What do you say, Tom?"
"what do you think of our not starting from this courtyard? Another
"What d'ye mean? What are you hooroaring at? What do you want to conwey
whatever, "are the papers of this prisoner?"
"Whatever housekeeping arrangement that may be," said Miss Pross,
Whatever tools they worked with, they worked hard, until the awful
"What?" exclaimed the hungry man, staring. "Is it a good sign, that he
"What has gone wrong?" said Monsieur, calmly looking out.
"What have you been, besides a messenger?"
"What have _you_ got to do with it, then, if a person may inquire?"
"What health? What toast?"
"What I have been thinking as we came along, and what I am still
What, indeed, with his hand putting aside the golden hair from the
"What is his name?" said Mr. Lorry, with his open pocket-book in his
"What is it?"
What is it?"
"What is it?" asked Mr. Lorry, eagerly.
"What is it?" asks Mr. Lorry, looking out at window.
"What is it, brother? What's it about?"
"What is it?" cried Lucie, affrighted. "Hush! The soldiers' swords are
"What is it in your hand?"
"What is it, my Lucie?"
"What is it that your husband says in that little letter?" asked Madame
"What is that?" he calmly asked, looking with attention at the
"What is that noise?" said the Doctor, turning towards the window.
"What is that?" she cried, all at once.
"What is the matter?"
"What is the matter?" asked the passenger, then, with mildly quavering
"What is the matter?" said the man who had caused Miss Pross to scream;
"What is the meaning of One Hundred and Five, North Tower?" asked
"What is this?"
"What is this?" cried Mr. Lorry, breathless and confused. "What is the
"What is this decree that the smith spoke of?" Darnay asked the
"What I suppose, Mr. Stryver, I claim to characterise for myself--And
what it was, struck at it, struck out a flash and a crash, and stood
what I want to say to you. Will you hear me?"
what I was doing! How lightly I valued the obligation I was conferring
"What man, pig? And why look there?"
What may your meaning be, Mr. Lorry?"
What money would be drawn out of Tellson's henceforth, and what would
"What now? Are you a subject for the mad hospital?" said the wine-shop
"What o'clock do you make it, Joe?"
"What of Charles?"
"What of your husband, the forester? Always the same with you people. He
"What other?"
"What passenger?"
What private solicitude could rear itself against the deluge of the Year
What proof had he of this?
"What purpose?" the spy asked.
"What," said Carton, still only half turned towards him, "do you expect,
"What!" said Mr. Cruncher, looking out of bed for a boot. "You're at it
"What," said Mr. Cruncher, varying his apostrophe after missing his
"What's coming on?"
what she did, in time to check herself and go back. It was dreadful to
"What's _he_ got to do with the case?" asked the man he had spoken with.
"What's his goods, father?" asked the brisk Young Jerry.
"What's on?" he asked, in a whisper, of the man he found himself next
"What's that to you? Ecod!" growled Mr. Cruncher, "it's you I have got a
"_What's_ the matter?"
"'What strength there is in these common bodies!' he said, looking down
what such a man could do to them, within the law and beyond it, that not
"What the devil do _you_ do in that galley there?" said Monsieur Defarge
"What the Devil! How many more of them!" exclaimed the man with the
"What the Devil, I say again!" exclaimed the gaoler, left with his wife.
"What then, my gentle sister?"
What time, the mail-coach lumbered, jolted, rattled, and bumped upon
"What vapour is that?" he asked.
"What? Walking here again, citizeness?"
"What was he like?"
"What was it you said to me?"
What was said in this disappointing anti-climax, by the disciples of the
"What was that?" Lucie asked.
What winds conveyed this hurry to the grizzled mender of roads, already
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
what you have fallen away from, and what you might have been! Change
what you have heretofore seen me. The last supplication but one I make
wheels came to a sickening little jolt, and there was a loud cry from a
wheels, like sheep; the wheels turned so suddenly that they were lucky
"When?"
when all days are at an end for me! Don't be alarmed; I am not going to
when all these things shall be answered for. I denounce them to Heaven
When a name was called, its owner stepped apart into a spot reserved
When coffee had been served and they were alone together, the nephew,
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
when every posting-house and ale-house could produce somebody in
when he brought his strength to bear on that hand and it yielded,
when he did--Don't be frightened! How you start!"
when he dropped dead under it, that, suddenly animated, she put her foot
When he had gone out into the next room, he turned suddenly on Mr. Lorry
when he had lost two legs and an arm, and still breathed! And it was
When he had said it, he took a culminating pinch of snuff, and put his
When he had sat in his saddle some half-hour, taking note of these
when he had seen the shoemaker at his work before, and his head was bent
when he made shoes under my care. As I serve my gun that day, I resolve,
When he put his tools aside as useless, until morning, Mr. Lorry rose
When her husband was brought in, she turned a look upon him, so
when her work would slowly fall from her hands, and her eyes would be
when he took to his trade or when he didn't. A honouring and obeying
When he was gone, and in the course of an evening passed with Miss
When he was left alone, this strange being took up a candle, went to a
When his host followed him out on the staircase with a candle, to light
"When I returned to the bedside of the young woman, I found her raving
when I speak of causes and reasons to make success probable, I speak of
"When I speak of success, I speak of success with the young lady; and
When it fell dark again, Mr. Lorry asked him as before:
when it is equally yours? Can I separate my father's twin-brother, joint
when it is mostly winter in fallen latitudes, the world of a man has
when I traversed it--it struck out of the main avenue, and presently
when it turned towards him in the passages of the Court House.
When it was not too wet or inclement for her child to be with her, they
when Madame Defarge put her toothpick by, kept her eyebrows up, and
When Mr. Lorry had finished his breakfast, he went out for a stroll on
"When passed?"
When Saint Antoine had again enfolded the Defarges in his dusky wings,
When the Attorney-General ceased, a buzz arose in the court as if
when the Judge looked up from his notes to glare at that tremendous
when the knife struck home, the faces changed, from faces of pride to
When the mail got successfully to Dover, in the course of the forenoon,
When the newly-married pair came home, the first person who appeared, to
when the place shall fall, to examine that cell. It falls. I mount to
"When the prisoner came on board, he noticed that my father," turning
When the quiet of the garret had been long undisturbed, and his heaving
when the streets were filled with people--he could not conceal from
When the time comes, let loose a tiger and a devil; but wait for the
When the village had taken its poor supper, it did not creep to bed,
When they arrived at the gateway where he had paused in the dark not
when they were compared together, had strengthened), that many of the
When this interchange of Christian name was effected, Madame Defarge,
"When you were talking to Lucie," Mr. Lorry repeated. "Yes. I wonder you
"Where?"
"Where are the papers of this prisoner?" demanded a resolute-looking man
whereas he often came home after banking hours with clean boots, he
whereat the jury's countenances displayed a guilty consciousness that
"Where could you wait for me?" asked Miss Pross.
where Darnay had seen the associated prisoners on the night of his
"Where does my father get all that iron rust from? He don't get no iron
"Where do you go, my wife?"
where his wound was, as I kneeled on one knee over him; but, I could see
where I'm going to. Going a fishing."
wherein she was likewise much commended.
"Where is my bench? I have been looking everywhere for my bench, and I
where is she?"
where I trust both you and I will be mercifully sheltered?"
"Where married?"
"Where," repeated the same personage, without taking any heed of him
where she had stood hundreds of times. A little wood-sawyer, having
where she had trodden on the body to steady it for mutilation. "Lower
where the bench and work were hidden that it still moaningly besought
where the good old man was gone. Sydney Carton drank nothing but a
where there was a blazing fire. A kettle steamed upon the hob, and in
where the window was. He stopped there, and faced round.
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
where you meditated on a misspent life, until the House came with its
whet he had taken as he came along, and discharging it to mingle with
Whether he had really been to any one, or whether he had been all that
whether he recollected what they had said to him, whether he knew that
whether they should foam, rage, roar, and turn cataleptic on the
which banished all emigrants on pain of Death. It was nothing that the
which had at once supported him under his old sufferings and aggravated
which had followed on one another so fast, that the events of this week
which had stung him bitterly, and those of Stryver, which above all were
which had taken anything but a convivial turn, Jerry Cruncher worried
which happened to be the old buildings of London--"have you seen much of
which he had no need to dwell, that the crowd had taken him through a
which he had so strong an impression had actually happened?
which he sat. There was something awful in his unconsciousness of the
which he saw a stranger.
which I am summoned.'
"Which I entreated you to believe, again and again, most fervently, with
which I have been surrounded all day long, have made me nervous without
"Which I have the vanity to hope is not probable."
which, indeed, in her grimness, she was no unsuitable figure. The
"Which is Evremonde?" says a man behind him.
which may mean anything. But what is the matter! She doesn't notice a
which Mr. Lorry had hired in honour of the day. The rest followed in
which no one but her Ladybird ever gained admittance. On this occasion,
which overshadowed him with such a fatal darkness, was very rarely
which passed within his view, at a distance of some fifty or sixty
which struck away all security for liberty or life, and delivered over
which struck the eyes and ears of his nephew forcibly. At the same
which the mad scene was acted, seemed to run mad, like the people on the
which, the soft and compassionate voices of women were conspicuous--gave
which the sufferer recovered, by a process that he cannot trace
which the village showed a lively inclination to displace in his favour.
which they peeped. The father had long ago taken up his bundle and
which was as delicate and fine as it was possible to be, the expression
which was not the side on which she stood. He had taken it up, and was
which was on his left. About on a level with his eyes, there sat,
which was raggedly bald, he had stiff, black hair, standing jaggedly all
which were swollen and red. Haunted by her feverish apprehensions, she
which will be made in his arms, his breast, and his legs, there will be
whiffed the compound of scents away, as he put down his smoked-out pipe.
while.
while as many people got on the roof of the hearse as could by any
while engaged in the commission of their deed and in the removal of its
while every minute you are here is worth a hundred thousand guineas to
While he trotted back with the message he was to deliver to the night
While his learned friend, Mr. Stryver, massing his papers before him,
while it lay on the base of the fountain, sat there watching the running
While Sydney Carton and the Sheep of the prisons were in the adjoining
while the bloom of the Long Vacation's infancy was still upon it.
while they made ready, and while he besought her: the women passionately
While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
whips, which twined snake-like about their heads in the evening air, as
whirled about, striking and tearing at their own friends until they
whisper at the fountain, that although condemned to death he will not be
whispered in the ears of Mr. Jarvis Lorry--sitting opposite the buried
whispered to them in its own way above their heads.
whispered with those who sat near, and from time to time glanced
whisper it, even to you), by the strangest bearers you can imagine,
whistled softly, as he read it. "Hi! hi! hi!"
white as a spectre, tall as a spectre!"
Whitefriars: the time, half-past seven of the clock on a windy March
white linen, and with his usual neat leg. The Doctor was summoned in the
who are in danger!"
"Who are the few? How do you choose them?"
"Who are they?"
"Who are you?"
who could find a living there.
Who could that be with Mr. Lorry--the owner of the riding-coat upon the
"Who?" demanded the traveller.
who directed the guard to open the barrier. Then he delivered to the
who formed the staff of domestics regarded her as quite a Sorceress,
Who gave them out, whence they last came, where they began, through what
"Who goes here? Whom have we within? Papers!"
who had a golden arm starting out of the wall of the front hall--as if
who had stripped her of everything she possessed, as a stake to
who, infected by the most pestilent and blasphemous code of devilry that
who is my business here."
"Who is the lady?"
who kept watch there through the night. The prisoners were far from
whole Fancy Ball in a bright continuous flow, came whirling by. The rats
wholesome means of enforcing her attention: "he has been found under
whom her eyes first encountered, "Well, I am sure, Boldface! I hope
whom it was addressed? The House laid the letter down so close to Darnay
who only deals with such material objects as guineas, shillings, and
whose body lay lifeless on the ground.
"Who seeks him?" answered Darnay.
whose riches could not buy his life, to the seamstress of twenty, whose
"Who's he?" said Miss Pross.
who smelt of port wine, and did not appear to be quite sober, laughed
whosoever liveth and believeth in me, shall never die."
who told my old father that he might eat grass, when I had no bread
"Who took him out of it?"
who was he?"
who was pale, turned paler, and asked him how he dared--
why."
"Why?"
"Why am I confined alone?"
"Why! Because he has lived so long, locked up, that he would be
"Why does he make that abominable noise? Is it his child?"
Why do I do it?"
"Why don't you go and fetch things, instead of standing there staring
"Why do you want to know?"
why I am in England."
"Why, it's on the tip of your tongue. It ought to be, it must be, I'll
"Why, look at you all!" bawled this figure, addressing the inn servants.
"Why, man alive, she was the admiration of the whole Court!"
"Why, Mr. Darnay? D'ye hear what he did? Don't ask, why, in these
"Why need you tell me what I have not asked? You are a turnkey at the
"Why not?"
"Why, no, thank you; this is a private visit to yourself, Mr. Lorry; I
Why not? the President desired to know.
"Why?" said Stryver. "Now, I'll put you in a corner," forensically
"Why, then," said Mr. Lorry, grasping his eager but so firm and steady
"Why, to be sure!" exclaimed Jerry, recalling the Trial at which he had
"Why, yes, of Beauvais. Like Monsieur Manette, your father, the
"Why, you're at it afore my face!" said Mr. Cruncher, with signs of
wicked and distracted had the Revolution grown in that December month,
wickedness and guilt of his business might have remained undiscovered.
widowhood and misery, to turn it grey.
wife, and this poor boy had had any but a unnat'ral mother, I might
wife; but, when he afterwards joined her in their own rooms, he found
wife, dear Darnay."
wife of the Marquis St. Evremonde. I connected the title by which the
wife would let his trade alone altogether. Call yourself a religious
wig at the ears, and follow the waiter to Miss Manette's apartment.
wigged gentleman with the papers before him, sitting not far from Mr.
wild alarm and hurry we are for getting out and running--hiding--doing
wild, and she constantly uttered piercing shrieks, and repeated the
wild-beast thought of the possibility of turning at bay. Depressed and
wild bright day, and he lifted his foot to put back one of the little
wild changes observable on familiar things which made this wild ride
wilderness before him, a mirage of honourable ambition, self-denial, and
wildly about, and the sea did what it liked, and what it liked was
will?"
will always be.
will always be disappointed. Now, pray say no more about it. I tell you,
will and act. Whether it was a daughter who would grow to be a woman."
will be renamed.
will call--Blacksmith's work, Blacksmith's work. We will say, to put a
will do very well. You have seen the worst of her agitation."
will for ever seek them in vain, be assured."
will give information against these people at my Section."
will have in me a man already pretty well off, and a rapidly rising man,
willing?'
"Willingly.
"Willingly, and a small return for your good offices."
willingly, and exterminate you from the earth. If I knew which rascal
"Willingly, sir," said Monsieur Defarge, and quietly stepped with him to
willing to cut his throat on the altar of the dawning Republic one and
"Will I promise? What will I not promise to my Love?"
"Will nothing of it remain? O Mr. Carton, think again! Try again!"
will not--not even at Tellson's--have it characterised for me by any
will only die with me. It is madness."
will play the losing one. No man's life here is worth purchase. Any one
will put her hands together and pray you to be merciful. We are more
will raise up friends for her, as He did for me."
will save them all."
"will take him where he is to go, and will lead him to the end that is
"Will you accompany me," said Mr. Lorry, joyfully relieved after reading
"Will you answer his question to me then? How does this happen?"
"Will you answer me a single question?"
"Will you go out?"
"Will you promise not to press one question on me, if I beg you not to
"Will you take charge of the letter?" said Mr. Lorry. "You know where to
"Will you try?"
"Will you undertake to explain, that we suppose it to have been
"Will you wake me, before departing? I have walked two nights without
wind.
window-breaking, and thence to the plundering of public-houses, was easy
window, reading and writing, and expressing in as many pleasant and
windows opened, crazy doors were unbarred, and people came forth
windows open, they were overpowered by heat. When the tea-table was
windows. When he got out of the house, the air was cold and sad, the
windows, which were always under a shower-bath of mud from Fleet-street,
wind rustled it, while they examined the signature by the dingiest of
wine, and not only did it all get taken up, but so much mud got taken up
wine-shop.
wine-shop keeper, and the starlight ride.
wine-shop, knitting away assiduously. A rose lay beside her, and if she
wine-shop over the lowered drawbridge, past the massive stone outer
wine-shop, still at his gun, which had long grown hot.
wine-shop, took up her knitting with great apparent calmness and repose
wine-shop worked like a manful soldier, Two fierce hours.
wine should be carried out under the plane-tree, and they should sit
wine, with a bowl of battered small coins before her, as much defaced
winking lamps, and the more than winking watchmen, and were out upon a
winning his way up in that path of life which once was mine. I see him
winning it so well, that my name is made illustrious there by the
wished to see, and were inquiring for when I stepped out, is on the
wishes to see Royalty and Nobility?"
wish to see her."
wish you would forget it."
with a brooding sense of wrong, and an inveterate hatred of a class,
with a Cross and a new large figure of Our Saviour on it; it was a poor
"With a daughter?"
With a deprecatory grunt, the jackal again complied.
with a face like a fine mask. A face of a transparent paleness; every
with a forehead that I know and golden hair, to this place--then fair to
with a gentleman of the Bank, so good as to be despatched to Paris for
with a high hand. Thus did the year one thousand seven hundred
With a hope ever darkening, and with a heart always growing heavier and
with a large stone courtyard before it, and two stone sweeps of
with all my duty and with all my faithful service, I bring back the
with all trades and professions, and not least of all with Tellson's.
With a long breath, he answered "Yes."
with a long sigh as he composed himself to sleep.
With a menacing look at the turnkey he crawled upon the hearth, and,
With an admonitory gesture to keep them back, he stooped, and looked in
with, and affectionately embraced.
with, and that I ought to have had a voice in the selection of my
With an exclamation of impatience, but with his unchangeable face,
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
with a particular feeling of objection; and Darnay stood divided between
with a passionate readiness to sacrifice it.
with a radiant look upon her face, in which there was even a comforting
with a reproachful look, but Carton's hand was close and firm at his
With a roar that sounded as if all the breath in France had been shaped
(with as grave a face as if it had not been true), saying that he could
with a sick feeling, and thought, "And here in these crawling creatures
with a smile.
With a solemn interest in the lighted windows where the people were
with a steady head: confident in his power, cautiously persistent in his
with a stone screen before it, so that the sky could be only seen by
with a vehemence that nearly took him off his legs, and a loud buzz
With a weary sound that was not a sigh, nor a groan, he bent to work
With a wild rattle and clatter, and an inhuman abandonment of
with bare arms, matted locks, and cadaverous faces, who had emerged into
with blood, in the last month of the tenth year of my captivity. Hope
with clouded eyes and with an altered manner of breathing, Carton--his
withdrawing is in your favour."
withdrew himself to his housetop behind his stack of chimneys; this time
With drooping heads and tremulous tails, they mashed their way through
with fear and trembling, that that terrible woman had knitted when he
with folded arms at the fountain, looking at the pillar of fire in the
with her hands touching one another in the attitude of prayer, and
with her. His arm trembled as it raised her, and supported her head.
with her toothpick, and saw and heard something inaudible and invisible
with her, when her forlorn young head drooped gently on one side, and
with him; let him remain with me; I will take care of him, and set him
with himself. The result of that conference was, that Gabelle again
with his arms bound--tied to his sides--like this!"
with his arms crossed upon him, and set as resolutely as his lips.
with his arm; the look and bearing of the brothers were then so exactly
with his cruel fingers at his hungry mouth; "it is not quite like a good
with his elbows on his knees and his head in his hands, that he was in
with his hair as stiff as his father's.
"With his hand in the girl's?"
with his hand, Jerry attracted the notice of Mr. Lorry, who had stood up
with his hands, and swooned away in the midst of it.
with his knee on his bench and his saw stopped in its work. "But it's
with his lips, he murmured some words. The child, who was nearest to
With his straw in his mouth, Mr. Cruncher sat watching the two streams,
with his swart forefinger, deeply engrained with gunpowder. "And here he
with his two fellow-patriots.
Within a few minutes, Miss Pross stood whispering at his side. If he
Within a hundred miles, and in the light of other fires, there were
within, and what with the shadows without, he could but dimly discern
Within half an hour from the first starting, they were beyond the
within the great foul nest of one high building--that is to say,
within this hour or two, that he had, or could have such a paper. It is
with it, and it should be what it now is, it may spare all sides what is
with it? In short, is it not a concession to the misgiving, to keep the
with its light shining on him, waiting for the meal, he sat so still,
with it until the play was played out.
with leaves and grass, had been heavy to drag over the many long
with Lucie her privilege as your child, companion, and friend; but to
with many compliments too numerous and forcible to repeat.
with more decision, "It has come to a point. I go on duty soon, and
with most inappropriate difficulty. On his house-top, he displayed pike
with muffled tread: the rather, forasmuch as to entertain any suspicion
with my fellow-creatures are mere business relations, when you reflect
with natural hesitation.
without a guinea haunted the spot where his guineas used to be.
without Charles, having seen him; and replied:
without continuous and accumulating resistance. That he had watched
Without deigning to look at the assemblage a second time, Monsieur the
without delay. He was then dying fast. As I turned my eyes to the elder
Without directly answering to this appeal, she sat so still when he had
without distinction.
"Without doubt," said the polished uncle.
"Without doubt. Where is your wife, Evremonde?"
"Without doubt. You are consigned, Evremonde, to the prison of La
without due occasion."
without heads, dear me, plentiful enough fur to bring the price down
without. I know what I know. I have seen with my eyes."
"Without it, can I not save you, Mr. Carton? Can I not recall
without its quantity of low, cruel, and bad, were the directing
without my knowledge, and I know that I can save him, Lucie."
Without returning the wish, Carton rose too, with something of a threat
without some remonstrance by any sane man who knew the truth. And it was
without surprise, that it was a shaggy-haired man, of almost barbarian
with people who had committed no offence, and could obtain no hearing;
with private watchmen (all awaricious and all in it), a man wouldn't get
with ropes. That was well done to tie a bunch of grass upon his back.
with sentiment. During the whole of this scene, which lasted some three
with something of that peculiar expression which he knew so well by this
with such a wise and elegant thrift that it was more abundant than any
with sudden impatience, "In the name of that sharp female newly-born,
With that, he shook the snuff from his fingers as if he had shaken the
with the addition of the first handful of straw that could be gleaned
with the affection and duty of a daughter who has become a woman, there
With the aid of his indispensable cap, he represented a man with his
with the ends of her handkerchief, and blowing the dust off it, and
with the gentlest solicitude--had made a litter for him and escorted him
with their many little reservoirs of mud and water, had no footways, but
with the knife, will be burnt off before his face; that, into wounds
with the least possible delay, and the burying of them, or otherwise
With the look fixed upon him, in her paleness and wildness, she panted
with them.
with them all, and to come at it in this chance manner--"is there any
with them as they come, tramp, tramp! But when they advance quite near
with the name--and with the face."
with the outrageous mob, that I only got away from England at the risk
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
With the tears streaming down her face, she put her two hands to her
with the thorns and leaves and moss of many byways through woods.
with the triumvirate of customers who were drinking at the counter.
with the vigorous tenacity of love, always so much stronger than hate,
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org
with this hallowed light about you, I have forborne, and forborne, as
With this hurried adjuration, he cocked his blunderbuss, and stood on
With those words, and a final snap of his fingers, Mr. Stryver
With those words the passenger opened the coach-door and got in; not at
"With two companions. A gentleman and lady. They are here."
with warmth resumed.
with which he had done what he had done, even although he had left
with which I could intersect them." He added in his inward and pondering
with wild energy, and laid one of them on the carriage-door--tenderly,
With wonderful quickness, and with a strength both of will and action,
with you."
"With your flying into the face of your own wittles and drink! I don't
"With your gracious permission, that was the wonder of it, Monseigneur.
"Witnesses."
witnesses, coupled with the documents of their discovering that would be
witnesses. The little citizen, not to be outdone, declared her to be a
"Wo-ho!" said the coachman. "So, then! One more pull and you're at the
woman.
woman and myself, one or other of them had always jealously sat behind
woman at intervals, by darting out of his sleeping closet, where he made
woman? If you're a religious woman, give me a irreligious one! You have
"Woman imbecile and pig-like!" said Madame Defarge, frowning. "I take no
woman's. "See, there is my husband!" she cried, pointing him out.
woman's, to-night, which have presented their danger to me in strong
woman's weakness, which was wonderful to see. No garret, no shoemaking,
woman, with a slight girlish form, a sweet spare face in which there was
woman with a strong hand, in the years gone by. She knew full well that
women, brown-haired, black-haired, and grey; youths; stalwart men and
women (mostly of a full habit and past the middle term of life) from
women, who bent over their shoulders, to sip, before the wine had all
wonderful bonnet like a Grenadier wooden measure, and good measure too,
wonderful exercise of agility climbed up the external architecture
wonderful gathering accumulated by Monseigneur. Exquisite gentlemen of
wooden shoes. The hands of the man who sawed the wood, left red marks
woollen shirt, said:
word, however, and Miss Pross, exploring the depths of her reticule
word! Miss Manette!"
word, Monsieur Defarge started and became deeply attentive. It had
word of what I now say. Besides that I should know it to be hopeless, I
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
words as suitable as he could find.
words fell on him as they would have fallen on an echoless wall, or on
words in the Doctor's writing:
words, 'My husband, my father, and my brother!' and then counted up to
words with his eyes fixed on the writer, his hand slowly and softly
word, to save my life."
word, when the thing that was to be, went on to shape itself out.
wore an odd little sleek crisp flaxen wig, setting very close to his
wore their usual clothes, and had not assumed the coarse garb of the
work.
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
work besides mere dictionary knowledge, young Mr. Darnay soon became
worked out in his own unhappy land by bad instruments, and that he who
work for him without pay, obliged to grind our corn at his mill, obliged
work. Give me my work."
workman putting his coat on, traversed the hall, or a stranger peered
Workmen dig, workmen hammer, soldiers laugh and sing; in the morning, by
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.
works.
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.
work, were all as usual.
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
world we live in, when it _is_ possible, and when many other such things
world, with all its greatnesses and littlenesses, lie in a twinkling
worn, it was a becoming robe enough, in a certain weird way, and her
Worn out by anxious watching, Mr. Lorry fell asleep at his post. On the
worse could happen to him if he were denounced. It was obviously the
Worse quarters than Defarge's wine-shop, could easily have been found
worse than useless now to inquire which; worse than useless to seek to
worst world worldly, with sensual eyes, loose tongues, and looser lives;
worth, and no customers coming in to help him to any other, Mr. Barsad
"Worth no more than that," repeated Mr. Cruncher. "They ain't worth
wos so, which I still don't say it is (for I will not prewaricate to
wot I'll stand by you, right or wrong."
wot that there Cly was never in that there coffin. Let him say he was,
would--"
would ask the witness to tell him whether what happened once, might
would be before the Tribunal again to-morrow, Mr. Barsad?--"
would be recalled--say, under certain circumstances--say, on a
would count up to twelve, and say, 'Hush!' There was no variation in the
would do that," answered Jerry.
would do to avenge himself on the rascal-people before long. It was too
would find the people, in a ghostly manner in the dead of the night,
would go back five years, and would show the prisoner already engaged
would have been a Professor; in that age, he was a Tutor. He read with
would have cast my lot in an island?"
"Would he," asked Mr. Lorry, "be sensibly relieved if he could prevail
"Would he remember what took place in the relapse?" asked Mr. Lorry,
would humbly offer to you, sir, would be this. Upon that there stool, at
would leave the matter there. I say, stop there."
would never be a lion, he was an amazingly good jackal, and that he
would not consent to your being charged with any written answer, but
would not have prospered. He had expected labour, and he found it, and
would overset the delicate organisation of the mind, and yet with the
would repeat the cry, 'My husband, my father, and my brother!' and
would soon have driven the House out of its mind and into the Gazette.
would think twice about harming of me, even if it wos so--I don't say it
wound.
wounds in it. My dear, I have seen it bleeding."
wrench it open, he was so frightened, being new to the sight, that he
wretched hour I am ignorant of both.
Wretched old sinner of more than threescore years and ten, if he had
wretched voice, that night all potent as the voice of Power and Plenty,
wretch in a deadly embrace--Madame Defarge had but followed and turned
wretch who creeps along the streets. Be comforted! But, within myself, I
wrist. In this state they set forth with the sharp rain driving in their
write down the thoughts that were inspiring her. If he had given any
"Write exactly as I speak."
write too, and--But stay! There is a Celebration in the streets, and no
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
wrote 'a poor physician.' And it was he, without doubt, who scratched
wrote until he had finished, read over to himself what he had written,
XI. A Companion Picture
XI. Dusk
XII. Darkness
XIII. Fifty-two
XIII. The Fellow of No Delicacy
XII. The Fellow of Delicacy
XIV. The Honest Tradesman
XIV. The Knitting Done
XIX. An Opinion
X. The Substance of the Shadow
X. Two Promises
XVIII. Nine Days
XVII. One Night
XVI. Still Knitting
XV. Knitting
XV. The Footsteps Die Out For Ever
XX. A Plea
XXI. Echoing Footsteps
XXIII. Fire Rises
XXII. The Sea Still Rises
XXIV. Drawn to the Loadstone Rock
yard or two of a man's nose, he can see it without a perspective-glass.
yards. It is likely enough that, rooted in the woods of France and
yard (the drunken patriot sat composedly in his saddle looking on, with
year one thousand seven hundred and eighty. It was very small, very
years.
years ago?"
years and character, united to the trustfulness and attachment of the
years, and they differed principally in the passions they expressed,
years a secret and unaccused prisoner in the Bastille; that, one of the
years before, and had not in plain words recorded what they saw. Such
"Ye-es, sir," returned Jerry, in something of a dogged manner. "I _do_
"Yes!"
"Yes."
"Yes. And if you were shown a flock of birds, unable to fly, and were
"Yes. And not for money. What do you say now?"
"Yes," answered Madame Defarge; "I have a good deal to do."
"Yes. As I was telling you last night when Lucie came in so
"Yes! But it is your weakness that you sometimes need to see your victim
Yes. By birth.
"Yes, citizen."
"Yes, dearest."
"Yes, dearest Charles," with her hands on his breast, and the inquiring
"Yes. Except that I remember them both to have been--like
"Yes; for a moment. At first I thought it quite hopeless, but I have
"Yes; for a walk with me. Why not?"
"Yes, go on."
"Yes. He will perish: there is no real hope," echoed Carton.
"Yes, I am."
"Yes; I believe so."
"Yes. I come from Doctor Manette."
"Yes, I could. I will, if you ask it."
"Yes, I do."
"Yes. I have observed his face. I have observed his face to be not the
"Yes, I know you, Citizen Doctor."
"Yes, indeed. When Doctor Manette was released, you, his old domestic,
Yes. It took four men, all four ablaze with gorgeous decoration, and the
"Yes, Jerry."
"Yes, Jerry," repeated Mr. Cruncher sitting down to tea. "Ah! It _is_
yes, Jerry. That's about it. You may say yes, Jerry."
Yes. Like the mariner in the old story, the winds and streams had driven
"Yes, madame," answered Mr. Lorry; "this is our poor prisoner's darling
"Yes, Miss Manette is going to be married. But not to an Englishman; to
"Yes, Mr. Lorry."
"Yes, my Lord."
"Yes," repeated the Marquis. "A Doctor with a daughter. Yes. So
"Yes," replied Darnay, looking at him with surprise.
"Yes," returned Defarge.
"Yes," said Carton. "I am not old, but my young way was never the way to
"Yes," said Carton, pausing again, and answering over his shoulder.
"Yes?" said Defarge.
"Yes?" said the Doctor, with evident constraint. "Bring your chair here,
"Yes," said the Marquis. "You are fatigued. Good night!"
"Yes, sir."
"Yes, sir, if the weather holds and the wind sets tolerable fair. The
"Yes, sir. Not much in the habit of such travelling yourself, I think,
"Yes, sir. Tellson's Bank in London, sir?"
"Yes, sir. We have oftentimes the honour to entertain your gentlemen in
"Yes, sir. Your honour told me to call you."
"Yesterday. And you?"
yesterday. I must finish my record to-day.
yesterday was, as usual, a cold one," observed the nephew.
yesterday. When is it dated? But no matter; don't stay to look; put it
"Yes, thank you."
"Yes. That she may be able to recognise the faces and know the persons.
"Yes. The family honour, sir, is safe from me in this country. The
Yes. The Loadstone Rock was drawing him, and he must sail on, until he
"Yes. T'other one's was one syllable. I know you. You was a spy--witness
"Yes, unhappily."
"Yes. We are quite a French House, as well as an English one."
"Yes, yes: better as it is."
"Yes, yes, thank God. I didn't quite mean what I said."
"Yes, yes, yes, I'll be cautious," said Miss Pross; "but I may say
"Yes, yes, yes," returned Mr. Lorry, drying his eyes, "you are right.
yet be a blessing to you, and a recompense to you for his mother!"
yet equally unconnected with anything that was real, or with lives
Yet even when his eyes were opened on the mist and rain, on the moving
yet, he of course knew now. He could not but admit to himself that he
yet his quarter--a banking away like smoke at Tellson's, and a cocking
Yet, Monseigneur had slowly found that vulgar embarrassments crept into
Yet, there was an air about him that was not all of pity--that had a
Yet, this Mr. Carton took in more of the details of the scene than he
yet! Tst! Yah! Get on with you!"
you?"
you."
you across the Channel, such a baby! Lord bless me! How little I thought
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
you, and leave me."
you and Miss Manette there is an affection so unusual, so touching, so
you, and very recognisant of your services; are they not?"
you. And when she died--I believe broken-hearted--having never slackened
"You and your luck, Sydney! Get to work, get to work."
"You and your yes, Jerry," said Mr. Cruncher, taking a bite out of his
"You anticipate what I would say, though you cannot know how earnestly
you any reason to believe that Lucie loves you?"
"You apprehend me very clearly, Mr. Barsad. I won't."
"You approve?"
"You are a cursed emigrant," cried a farrier, making at him in a
"You are a good man and a true friend," said Carton, in an altered
"You are a little depressed, too," said madame, whose quick eyes had
"You are a little late, Memory," said Stryver.
"You are a luckier, if you mean that."
"You are a noble heart. Did I say we could depend upon no better man?
"You are a philosopher, you there," said the Marquis, smiling. "How do
"'You are Doctor Manette?' said one.
"You are fatigued," said madame, raising her glance as she knotted the
"You are going out to-night?" asked his decent wife, when he took
You are going to her, I hope? She must be very desolate to-night."
"You are good enough to say so, as a fashion of speech; but, I don't
"You are happy, my dear father?"
"You are not a shoemaker by trade?" said Mr. Lorry, looking steadfastly
"You are not the gaoler's daughter?"
_you_ are pretty well!" She also bestowed a British cough on Madame
"You are right, Jacques," was the response of Monsieur Defarge.
"You are still hard at work, I see?"
"You are sure that he is not under too great a strain?"
you are the better for it?"
"You are the fellow we want," said Defarge, in his ear; "you make
you are there."
"You are the young lady just now referred to?"
You are well on your way to the poor wronged gentleman, and, with a fair
you brought me in?"
you call _that_ being a Banker?"
"You can bear a little more light?"
"You can be when you choose?"
"You cannot do your friend a better service." The Doctor gave him his
you cannot possibly stir out. I say this, because what I must bid you
"You cannot see him, my poor dear?"
_you_ capable of forming any plan, my dear good Mr. Cruncher?"
"You comfort me so much! I am so ignorant. Am I to kiss you now? Is the
- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
"You deceive yourself, monsieur," returned the keeper of the wine-shop.
"You did good service at the taking of the Bastille, citizen?"
"You didn't mean it," remarked the matter-of-fact Miss Pross, "and
"You dogs!" said the Marquis, but smoothly, and with an unchanged front,
"You do me too much honour," said the Marquis; "still, I prefer that
"You do not find it easy to advise me?" said Mr. Lorry. "I quite
"You don't get on with your account of your matrimonial intentions,"
"You don't hear much about them now?" said the spy.
You do remember them, I know. It is not in your nature to forget them.'"
you do, sir?" and shook hands. There was a peculiarity in his manner
you, driven from it by its distractions, oppressions, and miseries; like
you entered, that they tell me there is--and no wonder!--much sympathy
you--forgive me again!--to a better course? Can I in no way repay your
you give the evidence which it is your duty to give--which you must
"You had abandoned all hope of being dug out?"
you had been drinking."
you had been restored to her from the world beyond this life, you could
"You had better, Lucie," said Mr. Lorry, doing all he could to
"'You had better see,' he carelessly answered; and took up a light.
"You had great influence but yesterday, Doctor Manette; let it at least
"You hadn't taken to the dreadful business then, Jerry."
"You have acted as if you do; but I don't think you do."
"You have a husband, madame?"
"You have a visitor, you see," said Monsieur Defarge.
"You have been a long time coming," said the Marquis, with a smile.
you have been the last dream of my soul. In my degradation I have not
"You have been useful all your life; steadily and constantly occupied;
you have come, I think you will do something to help mamma, something to
"You have had your bottle, I perceive, Sydney."
"You have laid me under an obligation to you for life--in two senses,"
"You have money, and can buy the means of travelling to the seacoast
"You have my certificate in your hand with the rest, you know, and will
"You have no business to be incorrigible," was his friend's answer,
"You have no idea how such an apprehension weighs on the sufferer's
"You have no time to ask me why I bring it, or what it means; I have
"You have seen both dolls and birds to-day," said Madame Defarge, with
"You have seen Mr. Carton here, yourself. Mr. Stryver is here too,
"You heard me say why, a minute ago. Do you not believe it is the
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
you, in your different way. Marry. Provide somebody to take care of
you, I would do anything. If my career were of that better kind that
"You knit with great skill, madame."
"'You know, Doctor, that it is among the Rights of these Nobles to
"You know him, you have said. Do you know me?"
you know), I was insufferable about liking you, and not liking you. I
"You know me, my dear friend? Think again. This is not your proper
"You know that you are recalled to life?"
"You know that your parents had no great possession, and that what
"You know the Old Bailey well, no doubt?" said one of the oldest of
"you know there really is so much too much of you!"
"You left Paris yesterday, sir?" he said to Monseigneur, as he took his
you! Let me look."
you live hard, you'll knock up one of these days, and be ill and poor;
"You, Lucie? It is out of the Consolation and restoration you have
"You made mention of the young lady as a golden-haired doll. The young
"You make light of the obligation," returned Darnay, "but I will not
You may as well go again me one way as another. Drop it altogether."
you may be sure that I shall bear witness to your being thoroughly in
"You mean the Guillotine. Not ill. Sixty-three to-day. We shall mount
"You might, from your appearance, be the wife of Lucifer," said Miss
"You might treble that, and say a hundred and fifty, yet not be far from
"You mistake me for another. That is not my name. I am Ernest Defarge."
you move, Ladybird!"
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
"You must be, Mr. Carton, if the tale of fifty-two is to be right. Being
you must go flopping yourself down, flop in favour of your husband and
"You need have good cards, sir," said the spy.
you. Never mind your having no enjoyment of women's society, nor
younger, and that they were greatly alike, in stature, manner, voice,
younger; by the elder, I mean him who exercised the most authority. It
Young Jerry relieved his father with dutiful interest, and reported No
"Young Jerry," said Mr. Cruncher, turning to his offspring, "it's a
Young Jerry saw, was the form of his honoured parent, pretty well
young Jerry, walking at his father's side, carried every morning to
Young Jerry, walking with the stool under his arm at his father's side
Young Jerry, who had only made a feint of undressing when he went to
young lady. The young lady goes before all."
young men who could find any leisure and interest for the study of a
you of a visitor with whom I well know you have nothing in unison, and
"You oppose yourself to the profit of the business," said Jerry, "and me
- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
your affidavit, if I could have afforded to keep either myself or her
"Your afflicted,
"Your age, Evremonde?"
"Your clemency, Monseigneur! He was not of this part of the country. Of
your clients are people of condition. As to the nature of the case,
"Your confidence in me ought to be returned with full confidence on my
your destiny to far greater advantage than you influence it for
you really don't want to endanger my existence--which I half believe you
you really ought to think about a nurse."
you're John, you know. Which of the two goes first? And regarding that
"You remember the place, my father? You remember coming up here?"
your equipment.
you return, and then we will remove him straight."
"Your fishing-rod gets rayther rusty; don't it, father?"
your good father, my dear, in hands as earnest and as loving as your
your heels is where your head is, if such should be your wishes. If it
your history with something not quite so good as itself. But I love her.
"Your husband is not my business here," returned Madame Defarge, looking
"Your husband, Lucie?"
your leave, relate to you, miss, the story of one of our customers."
your life--and you were always both--you will compose yourself now, to
your lifetime. Gentleman of the name of Lorry answer straight."
your life was not your own."
your mother's a nice woman, young Jerry, going a praying agin your
your'n, ain't he? He's as thin as a lath. Do you call yourself a mother,
your noble name, I supplicate you, Monsieur heretofore the Marquis, to
your noble name!" was the poor prisoner's cry with which he strengthened
your object to be, purely and truthfully, as you have stated it. I
your other fortnight's trip in Wales, you shall say that we have sent
yourself better than we can describe it. Enough. Will you please to
yourself. But it is useless to discuss the question. I am, as you say,
yourself down and praying agin me?"
yourself excepted, saw the King take it, in his carriage in the street,
yourself to give him no restorative but air, and to remember my words of
yourself, was you called at that time?"
yourself wot I've had the honour of odd jobbing till I'm grey at it,
"Your servant," said Mr. Lorry. "Do you know me?"
your seventy-eight years would be seventy-eight heavy curses; would they
"Yours is a long life to look back upon, sir?" said Carton, wistfully.
yours, not mine; and I promise to respect it."
"Yours," said the gaoler.
your talents, and never to say no more than you can help to nobody, and
your while to apostrophise me, or the air, about it; what you want to
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
"You said something to me," said Doctor Manette, breaking into a smile.
"You?" said the Spy nervously.
"You say again you are quite sure that it was the prisoner?"
"You say truly, Mr. Carton; I think they would be."
"You scarcely seem to like your hand," said Sydney, with the greatest
you see me!"
"You see me, citizen!"
"'You see, monsieur, I am going to use them,' I replied, and said no
"You seem to know this quarter well; that is to say, better than I do?"
"You see?" said Carton, looking up, as he kneeled on one knee beside the
"You see," said Doctor Manette, turning to him after an uneasy pause,
"you see that there Cly that day, and you see with your own eyes that he
"You see, too," said the Doctor, tremulously, "it is such an old
"You shall know directly. Write on; there are but a few words more." He
"You shall not get off in that way," rejoined Stryver, shouldering the
"You should have said, short as a dwarf," returned Jacques Two.
you, sir), let that there boy keep his father's place, and take care of
"You speak collectedly, and you--_are_ collected. That's good!" (Though
"You speak like a Frenchman."
you speak of it in that way, that it was mere professional claptrap, I
"You speak so feelingly and so manfully, Charles Darnay, that I thank
"You spoke of his daughter. Does his daughter know of the relapse?"
you, striving to live away from it by my own exertions, and trusting
"You swear not to betray me?" said the trembling Spy, as he paused for a
you, the hands of baby, girl, and woman, all in one, are round your
youthful Jerry were as restlessly watchful of him as of everything else
youthfulness."
"You think it necessary to keep the unfortunate gentleman so retired?"
"You think not, sir?"
"_You_ think so?" said madame, looking at him with a smile.
"You think so?" said Mr. Stryver. "Well! you have been present all day,
"You think there never might have been a Mrs. Lorry?" asked the
youth of great promise, he had followed his father to the grave. His
you till one or other of us faints or dies!"
you to outlive denunciation, when you are in communication with another
you underwent when you suspected my descent, and when you knew it. We
you; useful business. Miss Manette, your mother took this course with
You've got a religious mother, you have, my boy: going and flopping
You want that sense altogether; therefore I am no more annoyed when I
"You were, just now; I saw you do it, and I don't wonder at it. Such
"You weren't. And if you were, I won't be took the liberty with. Here!
you were right, it never would have done."
"You were very sound, Sydney, in the matter of those crown witnesses
you when you leave it empty!"
you wicked foreign woman; I am your match."
"You will be careful to keep them separate, citizen? You know the
"You will be good to my poor husband. You will do him no harm. You will
"You will naturally be anxious to hear of the witness, Miss Manette. She
"You will not swear, Mr. Lorry, that he was not one of them?"
"You will see."
"You will see. But, what then? Other people have been similarly buried
you with all my heart, and will open all my heart--or nearly so. Have
"You work hard, madame," said a man near her.
you would, and are less mercenary on my behalf than I thought you would
you would have so much compassion for us!"
You wouldn't put yourself in opposition to the interests of your husband
you would set upon the birds of the finest feathers; would you not?"
zealous interest."
